Optimize Cooperative Agents with Organization
in Distributed Scheduling System
Wei Fan and Fan Xue
Software Technology Research Center, Civil Aviation University of China,
Tianjin 300300, China P.R.
fanxinhui@eyou.com
Abstract. DSAFO (Dynamic Scheduling Agents with Federation Organization) is a novel multi-agent constraint satisfaction algorithm for
AGSS problem (a NP-hard scheduling problem). This paper improves
on DSAFO by employing a resource requisition strategy, and models this
parallel multi-agent algorithm in polyadic π-calculus. The time complexity of the improved DSAFO is O(n3 ) + O(n2 ) × ttrans . Experiments show
improved DSAFO performs well in AGSS consumptions optimization of
resources and man-days. Though it is unstable, improved DSAFO makes
good probability to ﬁnd better solutions than classical heuristics and
its distributed and parallel agents viewpoint is potential to deal with
distributed dynamic troubles in real applications.

1

Introduction

Airport ground service is a service process from ﬂight landing to takeoﬀ, including gate assignment, baggage handling, catering, fueling, cleaning, etc. AGSS
(Airport ground service scheduling) is to schedule many kinds of dynamic ground
resources (baggage trucks, fuel trucks, etc.), to fulﬁll all constrained service subtasks of ﬂights timely to meet their arrival and departure deadlines [1].
AGSS problem is a NP-hard problem. Moreover, it could be viewed as either
a JSSP (Job-Shop Scheduling Problem) [2] Jm |rj , prmp|Σwj Uj [3] or a Dis-CSP
[4], because of the ways that real subtasks and resources are organized. In real
AGSS, most resources are ample except some prepared for accidents. Consequently the scheduling target Σwj Uj = 0 is not diﬃcult to achieve, however how
many resources and man-days consumed are important to airports and airlines.
The algorithm in this paper optimizes the resources and man-days consumptions.
DSAFO (Dynamic Scheduling Agents with Federation Organization) [1] is a
novel multi-agent algorithm for Dis-CSP (Distributed Constraint Satisfaction
Problem), especially for AGSS problem under high constraint. DSAFO employs
blackboard mechanism, federation organization, meta-level guided resource borrowing and domain knowledge guided plan backtrack. The principle of DSAFO
is coordinating distributed resources with cooperative agents.
The remainder of the paper is structured as follows: Chap. 2 represents the
improved DSAFO in form of polyadic π-calculus to precisely describe the parallel
essence of improved DSAFO. Chap. 3 analyzes the time complexity. Experiment
results appear in Chap. 4 and a brief conclusion is given in Chap. 5.
D.-S. Huang, K. Li, and G.W. Irwin (Eds.): ICIC 2006, LNAI 4114, pp. 502–509, 2006.
c Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2006


Optimize Cooperative Agents with Organization

2

Improved DSAFO

2.1

Polyadic π-Calculus

503

The polyadic π-calculus developed by Milner [5] is a very powerful tool to
model processes in parallel systems such as multi-agent systems and mobile
systems. The most primitive entity in polyadic π-calculus is a name. Names, inﬁnitely many, are x, y, . . . ∈ χ; they have no structure. The other kind of entity,
a process, is built from names by syntax
P ::= Σi∈I πi .Pi | P |Q |!P | (ν x)P
In this paper, we model DSAFO in π-calculus and usually abbreviate name
sequences in π-calculus to vector names, e.g. a subtask tuple structure may be
−−→
abbreviated to “task”. A name in vector name could be accessed using “”, e.g.
the LFT (Latest Finish Time) of a task is task  LF T .
2.2

DSAFO: An Overview

DSAFO is based on several parameters such as Heartbeat. And it implements a
unique Blackboard, a unique ResAdmin, some Coordinators and more Members.
def

DSAFO = (Schtasks, Agentst , Resources, T skinresr , Heartbeat, Clockzero)
(ν queryta , inf ormat , requestat , replyta , cancelta, synbuddyta , ackbuddyta ,
borrowta , lendat , ref useat , syndemandat , ackdemandat , reqresat , allotat ,
releaseat ) (BLACKBOARD|RESADMIN|MEMBERat

|COORDINATORr ) (t ∈ Schtasks, a ∈ Agentst , r ∈ Resources)
Channels among agents are organized as Fig. 1.
query
inform
request
reply

ResAdmin

Blackboard

cancel
release
allot
borrow
lend
reqres

Member t11

refuse

Member t22

syndemand
ackdemand

...

Member t31

(similar channels)
ackbuddy
synbuddy

1

Coordinator

2

Coordinator

forward channel
similar grouped channel

Fig. 1. channel organization of DSAFO

...

504

W. Fan and F. Xue

2.3

Blackboard Agent

The unique agent BLACKBOARD perceives information of ﬂights coming in
half an hour, decomposes them into subtasks and assigns subtasks with plans
from member agents.
BLACKBOARD = (F lights, Subtaskstf )
def

(BbF unc|RespQueryta|RespReqta |RespCancelta)
(t ∈ Schtasks, a ∈ Agentst , f ∈ F lights)
BLACKBOARD has four sorts of behaviors responding messages from members. For example, RespQueryta receives signals from channel Queryta and then
responses with the top of ready subtasks and the most delayed subtask.
−→ −→
−→
RespQueryta ≡ !queryta .(ν c)(readytaskt c|c(tsk).[tsk = nil]inf ormat tsk)
−−→ −−→
−−→
.(ν uc)(delaytaskt uc|uc(utsk).[utsk = nil]inf ormat utsk)
−−→
RespReqta ≡ !requestat (plan).(ν ch)(getplanch, plan  f no, plan  tsk
−−−−−→ −−−−−→
−−→
−−→
|ch(myplan).[myplan = nil](assignplan.replyta syn, plan))
−−→
RespCancelta ≡ !cancelta(plan).(ν ch)(getplanch, plan  f no, plan  tsk
−−−−−→ −−−−−→ −−→
|ch(myplan).[myplan = plan]f reeplan  f no, plan  tsk)
2.4

ResAdmin

Agent RESADMIN is a resource administrator. When received resources request,
RESADMIN would search free resources and allot one if possible. After half
a man-day (4-hour work), the resource would be free again. Additionally, one
resource serves no more than one and a half man-days.
RESADMIN = (reslistr , historylistr )(RaF unc|Respreqta |Respreleaseat)
def

(r ∈ Resources, t ∈ Schtasks, a ∈ Agentst )
Behaviors Respreqta and Respreleaseat do resources allocation and recovery.
→
Respreqta ≡ !resreqta (begintm).(ν ch)(gettopf reerest ch, begintm|ch(−
res)
→ = nil]allotares  name, begintm)
.[−
res

t
a
a
Respreleaset ≡ !releaset (resname).(ν ch)(getresf romhashch, resname

→ −
→ = nil]loghistory−
→
−
→
|ch(−
res).[
res
res.releaseres
res)

2.5

Member

A member agent MEMBERat is in charge of subtask t. It always has a desire to handle subtasks. After MEMBERat received available subtask goals from

Optimize Cooperative Agents with Organization

505

BLACKBOARD, it intends to make suitable plans and request for them. Every
member agent always has an open hand when others need help.
MEMBERat = (Resourceat , Remoteresat )(M bF unc
def

|ActQryta |M kP lanat|CallBdat |Ackresat |T ryLendat |AckLendat )
(t ∈ Schtasks, a ∈ Agentst )

Cyclic behavior ActQueryta is inﬁnite (but ﬁnite in practical scheduling). It
sends subtask requests to drive the DSAFO and releases expired resources. The
behaviors M akeP lanat perceives subtask information and try to make plans
for them. If the subtask cannot be locally scheduled, CallBdat , T ryLendat and
AckLendat cooperate to perform resource borrowing. After all resources borrowing failed, it would send resource request to RESADMIN, and behavior Ackresat
would receive the coming resource.
−−−−→
ActQryta ≡ (queryta .blockta Heartbeat.(ν ch)(getexpiredresat ch|ch(reslist)
−−−−→
−−−−→
.[reslist = nil]releasealltareslist).)+∞
−→
−→
→
M kP lana ≡ !inf orma (tsk).(ν ch)(makenullplan ch, tsk|ch(−
n ))
t

t

t

−−→
−−→
−
.(ν p)(locallyplanp, →
n |p(plan, res).([res = null]requestatplan
−−→
+ [res = null]synbuddyta(plan)))
−−−→ −
→
−−−→ −
→
−
→
CallBdat ≡ !(ackbuddyta (uplan, lst)|ref useat (uplan, lst)).(ν c)(topof c, lst
−−→
−−−→ −−→
|c(next, nlist).([next = null]nextuplan, nlist, lendat , ref useat 
+ [next = null]reqresuplan  EST − 1))
Ackresat ≡ !allotat (name, begintm).(ν ch)(genrest ch, name, begintm, 239
→
→ −
→ = nil]addres2locallist−
res)
|ch(−
res).[
res

−−−→ −
→
−−−→
T ryLendat ≡ !borrowta (uplan, lst, succ, f ail).(ν ch)(locallyplanch, uplan
−−→
−−→
−−→
|ch(plan, res).([res = null]assignatplan.succplan
−−−→ −
→
+ [res = null]f ailuplan, lst))
−−→
−−→
−−→
AckLendat ≡ !lendat (plan).assignremoteplan.requestat plan
2.6

Coordinator

A coordinator agent COORDINATORr coordinates all member agents having
resource r. After elimination of plan backup mechanism, it has several behaviors
on information synchronization and buddy list making up.
CORDINATORr = (M etainf or , Syncycle)(CooF unc|Synchr |Storeat |RespBdat )
def

(r ∈ Resources, t ∈ T skinResr , a ∈ Agentst )

506

W. Fan and F. Xue

Synchr and Storeat cyclically collect meta-level information of member agents
which belong to it. Behavior RespBdat tells a member buddy list sorted by metalevel information.
Synchr ≡ (synallr .blockr Syncycle × Heartbeat.)+∞
Storeat ≡ !ackdemandat (dm).(ν ch)(setvalch, dm|ch(demandsat )
.removelistdemandsat .insertsortdemandsat )
−−→
−−
→
RespBdat ≡ !synbuddyta .(ν ch)(genbuddylisttch|ch(blst).ackbuddyta blst))

3

Complexity

First of all, we abbreviate the number of ﬂights F lights to “n” as well as
24 × 60 × Heartbeat to “WholeDay”.
3.1

Preparation

For any subtask t, there are n jobs to do at most. And there must be a minimal
for t. The resource expectation res∗t
completion time ctmin
t
O(n) = n × ctmin
/WholeDay ≤ res∗t ≤ n = O(n)
t
Hence, res∗t = O(n) (t ∈ Schtasks)
For each resource r, there is a constant set T skinresr . By summing it up one
by one, we have expectation of each resource r ∈ Resources is res∗r = O(n).
In fact, resources to allocate usually approximates the expectations O(n), so we
assume the number of each resource r ∈ Resources is resr = O(n).
Because the agents number aﬀects the complexity, we assume there are O(n)
agents to compute the upper bound of complexity.
3.2

Time Complexity

Time complexity of improved DSAFO is mainly from two parts: resource borrowing and demand synchronization. The rest processes are less complex.
Resource Borrowing. In the worst case, there are O(n) searches and O(n)
borrowing message transmissions to fulﬁll every subtask. All O(n) subtasks cost
tborrow = O(n2 ) × tsearch + O(n2 ) × ttrans = O(n3 ) + O(n2 ) × ttrans .
Demand Synchronization. Demand synchronization is a cyclic action. Each
member has only one coordinator in federation organization, therefore, each synchronization transmits O(n) messages and do O(n×n) sorts. The synchronization
costs


WholeDay
= O(n2 ) + O(n) × ttrans
tsyn = O(n) × ttrans + O(n2 ) ×
Heartbeat × Syncycle
To sum up, the upper bound of complexity tDSAFO = O(n3 ) + O(n2 ) × ttrans .

Optimize Cooperative Agents with Organization

4

507

Experiment Result

We implemented DSAFO in JADE [6], a multi-agent development environment,
and implemented the channels on FIPA ACL [7].
In classical JSSP, EDD (Earliest Due Date ﬁrst) and FCFS (First Come Fist
Serve, also well known as ERT, Earliest Ready Time) are two powerful heuristic
algorithms for minimal uncompleted jobs scheduling [3]. We tested these algorithms with a 282 transfer ﬂights problem under normal constraint.
As a multi-agent algorithm, DSAFO is an unstable algorithm. Consequently
we gave spontaneous 250 runs to get the distribution of the solutions. Figure 2
shows the baggage truck solution distribution for trucks and man-days consumed
by DSAFO with 8 baggage truck agents.

Fig. 2. Distribution of DSAFO (8 agents) solutions for baggage trucks

Furthermore, we tested DSAFO in diﬀerent quantities of MEMBER agents.
The results were accumulated in Fig. 3 and 4. From the marginal distributions
in Fig. 3, we can see that 76.8% resource solutions of DSAFO with 8 agents are
not worse (59.6% better) than EDD and FCFS, the probabilities are 54% and
32% with 12 agents and 16 agents. But the best solutions of the three are nearly
the same. And so is in Fig. 4. It means when the number of agents increases,
probabilities of good solutions decrease, but the best solution seems stable.
Figure 5 shows the simultaneous serving resources of solutions done by diﬀerent optimization algorithms.

508

W. Fan and F. Xue

Fig. 3. Marginal distribution of baggage trucks consumed

Fig. 4. Marginal distribution of 4-hour baggage truck works

Fig. 5. Simultaneously serving baggage trucks by diﬀerent optimization algorithms

Optimize Cooperative Agents with Organization

5

509

Conclusion

AGSS problem is a typical dynamic distributed scheduling problem. To optimize
AGSS consumptions of resources and man-days is diﬃcult, but it is important
to economy. DSAFO is a novel multi-agent constraint satisfaction algorithm for
AGSS problems.
We improved DSAFO for optimizing consumptions of resources and man-days
by incorporating a resource allocation strategy. Experiments show that improved
DSAFO performs well in optimization. And when the number of agents increase,
probabilities of good solutions would decrease but the best solution would be
stable.
Though improved DSAFO is unstable, it makes good probability to ﬁnd better
solutions than classical heuristics, and its construction of distributed and parallel
agents is potential to deal with distributed dynamic troubles in real applications.
Furthermore, DSAFO may be allied to common dynamic distributed scheduling
problems for its low complexity and sound eﬀect.
Acknowledgements. The authors acknowledge the support by National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) under Grant No. 60472123.

References
1. Xing, J., Fan, W., Ji, L.: Design of Airport Ground Service System Based on Multiagent. Journal of Civil Aviation University of China, 24 (2006) (in Chinese).
2. Modi, P. J.: Distributed Constraint Optimization for Multiagent Systems. Ph.D.
Dissertation. University of Southern California, USA (2003)
3. Tang, H., Zhao, L.: Introduction to Scheduling Theory. Chapter 2. Chinese Acdemic
press, Beijing (2002) (in Chinese).
4. Yokoo, M.: Distributed Constraint Satisfaction: Foundation of Cooperation of Multiagent System. Springer Verlag, Heidelberg, Berlin (2001)
5. Milner, R.: The Polyadic π-calculus: A Tutorial. Tech. Report ECS-LFCS-91-180.
University of Edinburgh, UK (1991)
6. Bellifemine, Poggi, F., Rimassa, A., Jade, G.: A FIPA2000 Compliant Agent Development Environment. In Proceedings of The Fifth International Conference on
Autonomous Agents (AGENT01), Montreal, Canada, ACM Press, New York (2001)
216-217.
7. FIPA: FIPA ACL Message Structure Speciﬁcation. Document No. 00061, Geneva,
FIPA, http://www.ﬁpa.org/specs/ﬁpa00061/SC00061G.pdf (2002)

