Front. Eng. Manag. 2025, 12(3): 510–528
https://doi.org/10.1007/s42524-024-4006-x

RESEARCH ARTICLE

Lingming KONG, Rui ZHAO, Chimay J. ANUMBA, Weisheng LU, Fan XUE

Open BIM exchange on Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk: A
traceable semantic differential transaction approach

© The Author(s) 2024. This article is published with open access at link.springer.com and journal.hep.com.cn

Abstract Building information modeling (BIM) has
become prevalent in construction engineering management. However, the efficiency of traditional file-based
BIM exchange between multidisciplinary teams remains
low due to the transmission of redundant data from mostly
unchanged BIM objects. Additionally, the traceability of
changes between BIM files is limited. This paper proposes
a traceable semantic differential transaction (tSDT)
approach for open BIM exchange, which minimizes data
redundancy and enables semantic-level traceability of BIM
changes. Furthermore, openBIMdisk implements the tSDT
and provides a Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk to support efficient, traceable, and secure BIM exchanges across multiple
blockchain services. A pilot study of a modular construction
project demonstrated the effectiveness of tSDT and openBIMdisk. Experimental results indicated that tSDT
achieved minimal BIM redundancy for storing and restoring
all BIM changes, using a sheer 0.007% of disk space on
average. openBIMdisk facilitated BIM version management
and object-level semantic traceability with a response time
of 5.3 ms. The contributions of this paper are twofold.
First, tSDT offers a novel and efficient approach for
semantic BIM change traceability. Second, openBIMdisk
provides BIM practitioners with a Blockchain 3.0 application featuring intuitive and user-friendly interfaces for
BIM exchange.

Received Jan. 7, 2024; revised Jul. 3, 2024; accepted Jul. 25, 2024
Lingming KONG, Rui ZHAO, Weisheng LU, Fan XUE (✉)
Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong 999077, China
E-mail: xuef@hku.hk
Chimay J. ANUMBA
College of Design, Construction and Planning, University of Florida,
Gainesville, FL 32611, USA
The work presented in this paper was supported by Hong Kong
Research Grants Council (RGC) (Grant No.17200221) and in part by
Hong Kong Innovation and Technology Commission (ITC) (No.
ITP/029/20LP).

Keywords
building information modeling, traceable
semantic differential transaction, Blockchain 3.0, Open
BIM exchange, information redundancy

1

Introduction

Building information modeling (BIM) has emerged as a
milestone and is progressively mandated in conceptualizing, generating, communicating, and storing information
for construction engineering management (Sacks et al.,
2022). BIM is defined by Eastman et al. (2008) as a digital
integration of information throughout the life cycle of a
building, from concept to design through construction
and deconstruction. However, BIM collaboration has
been challenged by poor BIM interoperability, which has
resulted in inefficient data exchange (Oraee et al., 2019;
Liu et al., 2017; Zhao et al., 2017).
Industrial Foundation Classes (IFC) was developed to
support seamless data exchange across heterogeneous
professional software for BIM collaboration (bSI, 2023).
IFC presents a digital building model via an inheritance
hierarchy that defines inheritable attributes and relationships of objects (Borrmann et al., 2018). IFC is gradually
growing into a de-facto standard of open BIM (Lai and
Deng, 2018). However, exchange with IFC files encounters
three prevalent challenges, i.e., redundancy (Zhang et al.,
2014), traceability (Hastig and Sodhi, 2020), and security
(Zhao et al., 2021; Berlo et al., 2021; Lou et al., 2021;
Das et al., 2021).
Researchers employed cloud computing and blockchain
technologies to ease the challenges to IFC exchange in
the literature. Cloud computing and graph models
partially overcame the redundancy and traceability challenges associated with the centralized file-based
exchange paradigm (Sacks et al., 2022; Wang et al.,
2023). Blockchain has the potential to complement BIM’
s traceability and security; Still, it is incapable of storing
IFC files directly, as an IFC project file size is tens of, or
even several hundred of megabytes, which exceeds

Lingming KONG et al. Open BIM exchange on Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk

blockchain’s storage capability. Studies in the literature
addressed the challenges using two architectures. One
architecture employs two-tier BIM storage, i.e., off-chain
BIM files and an on-chain storage for hashed file records
(Tao et al., 2021; 2022; Celik et al., 2023b). The two-tier
architecture compromises on blockchain’s limited storage
capacity that only metadata of BIM files, e.g., object
version, issuing discipline, etc., are stored on the
blockchain. Thus, the two-tier architecture supports only
file-level traceability and circumvents data redundancy
issues in BIM exchange. However, the semantic-level
traceability is becoming increasingly important in realtime applications such as digital twins (Boje et al., 2020;
Liang et al., 2024; Hakimi et al., 2024) and artificial
intelligence (Chen et al., 2024). The other architecture
records all semantic BIM changes, computed by algorithms
like semantic differential transaction (SDT) (Xue and Lu,
2020), on a permissioned Blockchain 2.0 backbone. The
second architecture aims to respond to all three challenges
but is confined by the IFC processing algorithm’s leading
time and semantic-level BIM traceability. As a consequence, the proposed implementation of Blockchain technologies in BIM exchange is still in its infancy and far
from reality (Celik et al., 2023a; Figueiredo et al., 2022).
This paper aims to present a novel approach for achieving
efficient, traceable, and secure open BIM exchange in
project-level application. First, a novel traceable SDT
(tSDT) approach is developed as a significant extension
of semantic traceability capability and performance to the
SDT (Xue and Lu, 2020). Furthermore, OpenBIMdisk
realizes the tSDT and provides a Blockchain 3.0 virtual
disk for supporting efficient, traceable, and secure BIM
exchanges in construction engineering management.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 provides a systematic review of IFC-based
BIM exchange, existing open BIM exchange paradigms,
and blockchain applications. Section 3 describes the
conceptual framework of this paper. Section 4 introduces
the tSDT approach with its two components: semantic
interoperability as pre-processing and tSDT processing.
Section 5 presents the openBIMdisk with a Blockchain
3.0 design and graphical user interfaces. A case study
validated the feasibility and efficiency of the tSDT
approach and openBIMdisk in Section 6. Section 7
Table 1

511

discusses the contributions and limitations of this paper.
The final section identifies areas for further improvement
and research.

2

Literature review

2.1

BIM exchange and IFC

“No BIM is an island” (Chen, 2018), BIM exchange
stands as an essential yet costly objective of collaboration
in construction engineering management. This is because
numerous off-the-shelf BIM vendors provide an array of
BIM software programs for BIM users to choose from
(Wu and Zhang, 2019), not to mention the specialized
disciplines and professional inputs inherent in construction
projects (Deng et al., 2019). To promote the exchange
efficiency of BIM, IFC is proposed as the data exchange
standard (Laakso and Kiviniemi, 2012). As an open BIM
standard, IFC presents a digital building model via an
inheritance hierarchy that defines the inheritable
attributes and relationships of objects (Borrmann et al.,
2018; Guo et al., 2020). The IFC schema is also open to
accommodating new extensions, such as nine actions in
three categories of typical BIM semantic changes (Kong
and Xue, 2023). Researchers have utilized the IFC inheritance hierarchy for BIM exchange (Krijnen and Beetz,
2020; Tang et al., 2020).
IFC data can be encoded in various file formats, each
having benefits and trade-offs pertaining to software
support, scalability, and readability. Table 1 outlines the
benefits and tradeoffs of three primary IFC formats,
namely STEP Physical File (SPF), Extensible Markup
Language (XML), and JavaScript Object Notation
(JSON). SPF is the most widely used format in IFC practice
and the most compact of the three formats (bSI, 2023).
Nevertheless, SPF grapples with issues of poor readability
and redundant data arising from inconsistent entity names
and obscure parent-child relationships (Krijnen and
Beetz, 2020). Alternatively, the XML format is established
through an automatic mapping from EXPRESS to XML
as presented in ISO-10303 Part 28 Edition 2 (ISO, 2016).
While the XML format ensures data consistency, it
exhibits drawbacks in terms of data redundancy, processing

List of mainstream IFC formats

Format

Extension

Size

Pros

Cons

.ifc

100%

• Most widely used
• Most compact

Extensible Markup Language (XML)

.ifcxml

113%

• Enhanced readability (↑)
• Higher computational efficiency (↑)
• Higher compact (↑)

• Data redundancy (↓)
• Low flexibility (↓↓)
• Poor readability (↓↓)
• Data redundancy (↓↓)
• Low flexibility (↓)
• Byte-level inconsistency (↓)

JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)

.ifcjson

148%

• Enhanced readability (↑)
• Higher computational efficiency (↑↑)
• Enhanced flexibility (↑)

• Data redundancy (↓↓↓)
• Low compact (↓)
• Preliminary application

STEP Physical File (SPF)

512

Front. Eng. Manag. 2025, 12(3): 510–528

efficiency and inflexibility, thus restricting its application
(Afsari et al., 2017; Xue and Lu, 2020; Xu et al., 2022).
Multiple previous studies have substantiated that parsing
JSON data is more efficient with fewer computing
resources, ultimately enhancing the operational efficiency
of web service applications (Wang, 2011; Lin et al.,
2012; Sun et al., 2020). Consequently, a JSON serialization
of IFC data, as proposed by Afsari et al. (2017), is
employed in this research to bolster web-based BIM
exchange.

2.2 Comparison of existing open BIM exchange
paradigms
Data redundancy, traceability, and security are prevalent
and significant concerns of open BIM exchange (Zhang
et al., 2014; Hastig and Sodhi, 2020; Zhao et al., 2021).
With the development of information technology, different
types of open BIM exchange paradigms were developed
to resolve the concerns. Table 2 lists three types of existing
open BIM exchange paradigms: (1) centralized, (2)
decentralized, and (3) distributed. The term “centralized”
means BIMs are exchanged through centralized files, the
term “decentralized” means BIM sources are available in
multiple centrally controlled data centers, and the term
“distributed” means the centralized control of BIM
sources is further eliminated and can be accessed through
any peers in the network.
Centralized open BIM exchange paradigm is the most
straightforward way for BIM communication between
stakeholders. For the improved efficiency of centralized
open BIM exchange, the BIM collaboration format
(BCF) and the Model View Definition (MVD) (Sacks
et al., 2018) were included in the IFC standard. However,
BCF requires definitions before use and lacks generalization, and the MVD contains random contents (e.g.,
GUIDs). As a result, centralized open BIM exchanges
encounter inconsistencies and are time-consuming to
revise (Lee et al., 2021b). Moreover, the risk to security,
encompassing potential issues such as data loss, data
manipulation, and data privacy, prevents traceable
centralized BIM exchange (Berlo et al., 2021; Lou et al.,
2020).
Decentralized open BIM exchange paradigm is a new
trend to support efficient and simultaneous BIM collaboration. Cloud computing is the most widely adopted ICT
for decentralized open BIM exchange (Zhao and Taib,
2022). The advent of cloud BIM is considered to realize
Table 2

real-time data exchange (Wong et al., 2014). Several
BIM software vendors already provide cloud services,
such as Autodesk BIM 360, Graphisoft BIM Explorer
(BIMx), and BIMcloud (Afsari et al., 2016). Furthermore, the decentralized exchange of open BIM provides
enhanced traceability. For instance, Sacks et al. (2022)
proposed a ‘Cloud BIM’ approach to building modeling,
which maintains consistency across federated disciplinespecific models. However, issues of security still present
challenges to cloud BIM integration (Mutis and Paramashivam, 2019).
The recent emergence of the blockchain offers a fresh
perspective on recognizing the reliable and efficient
distributed open BIM exchange of the construction industry
(Hijazi et al., 2021). Blockchain is a distributed database
that facilitates peer-to-peer communications through
cryptographic transactions and distributed consensus
protocols (Belotti et al., 2019). Thus, a secure, transparent, and distributed data exchange is achieved by eliminating the requirement for centralized authorities (Li
et al., 2019). Many researchers have discussed the possible
application of blockchain for open BIM exchange to
promote security and bitwise traceability (Das et al.,
2021). According to Table 2, blockchain’s distributed
exchange performance is the best among the listed BIM
exchange paradigms. In conclusion, the distributed nature
of Blockchain responds to the challenges of basic traceability and security issues in BIM data exchange. Therefore, adopting blockchain for BIM data exchange can be
a promising solution. The only remaining problems that
prevent the integration of BIM and blockchain are BIM
data redundancy and BIM object-level traceability.

2.3

Blockchain in construction

Blockchain is a recent focal point of research. Blockchain
has rapidly gained recognition as a potentially disruptive
technology poised to propel the construction industry into
the fourth industrial revolution (Perera et al. 2020; Wu
et al. 2024) and achieve sustainability (Lu et al., 2024).
Blockchain can be categorized into two types based on
privacy: permissioned blockchain and permission-less or
public blockchain (Nawari and Ravindran, 2019).
Permissioned blockchains restrict the actors who can
contribute to the consensus of the system state, whereas
permissionless blockchains allow any participant to validate transactions or create smart contracts. Hyperledger
Fabric and Ethereum are two common examples of the

Comparison of three open BIM exchange paradigms

Exchange paradigms

Redundancy

Traceability

Security

References

High

Lack

Low

Sacks et al. (2018); Pinheiro et al. (2018)

Decentralized

Medium

Medium

Low

Mutis and Paramashivam (2019); Sacks et al. (2022)

Distributed

Very high

High

High

Xue and Lu (2020); Tao et al. (2021)

Centralized

Lingming KONG et al. Open BIM exchange on Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk

types, respectively. Construction projects are typically
sensitive to copyrights, budges, and accountability of
stakeholders. Concerns about data manipulation, misuse
of information, and other security issues arising from
third-party involvement in construction projects necessitate tight management of BIM accessibility. Some previous
research explored how to promote the security of permissioned blockchain for BIM through information technologies, such as Zero-knowledge proof (Kong et al., 2024).
Therefore, permissioned blockchain is a better choice for
most BIM projects (Kong et al., 2022) and adopted in this
research. The word “permissioned” is ignored in the
following part of this paper for readability.
The milestone Blockchain 2.0, such as Hyperledger
Fabric, includes noteworthy attributes such as decentralization to avert single point of failure (Monrat et al.,
2019), identity anonymization (Sun et al., 2016),
immutable data storage (Li et al., 2022), and transparent
transaction broadcasting (Bodkhe et al. 2020). In the
literature, Blockchain 2.0 offers off-the-shelf domainindependent transactional functionalities for consensus
mechanism and membership services, and thus holds
significant promise for facilitating construction data
exchange (Swan, 2015).
A Blockchain 3.0 computational paradigm ports
Blockchain 2.0 transactional functionalities to construction
domain-specific systems and applications; so that decentralized apps (DApps) can respond well to the needs of
construction project stakeholders (Angelis and Ribeiro de
Silva, 2019; Zhao et al., 2023). For example, Zhao et al.
(2023) designed a Blockchain 3.0 with a two-step workflow with a locally cached digital twin of data and
confirmed a savings of 99.2%–99.8% of the blockchain’s
response time and off-line structured BIM objects query
functions for three modular construction applications.
Some researchers have theoretically discussed the integration of blockchain with BIM for BIM data storage and
validation. For example, a preliminary case study
presented by Pradeep et al. (2020) applied blockchain to
exchange project files (e.g., drawings and schedules in
DWG and PDF formats). Similarly, Tao et al. (2021)
introduced a distributed BIM file storage framework
supported by blockchain and IPFS technologies. Celik
et al. (2023a) utilized blockchain to record metadata of
BIM objects and establish the information priority and
provenance. Wang et al. (2020) implemented blockchain
to improve information scheduling and traceability for
supply chain information management. Notably, existing
studies in this domain have primarily operated at the
framework level, often neglecting the challenge of data
redundancy. These studies chiefly store BIM file metadata
(e.g., hash signatures) on the blockchain, sidestepping the
challenge of redundant BIM data. The root of data redundancy lies in the inherent conflict between the centralized
nature of BIM and the distributed nature of blockchain. A
multitude of redundant data is prevalent within a BIM

513

model, and the replicated data storage mechanism inherent
in blockchain further exacerbates this issue.
Semantic changes in BIM recently emerged as a new
trend in the field of open BIM exchange, rather than
concentrating solely on compressing individual IFC
models by eliminating duplicated instances through
dynamic STEP #-IDs (Gui et al., 2019). Xue and Lu
(2020) proposed the SDT model to capture incremental
semantic changes in a series of IFC models. The advantages
of documenting semantic changes rest upon two aspects:
(1) BIM inherently follows an incremental model that
lends itself to representation through semantic changes,
aligning more closely with industrial practices; (2)
recording differences circumvents the impact of inconsequential byte-level changes stemming from repetitive
import and export of IFC models across BIM software
programs. Researchers, such as Lee et al. (2021a) and
Pradeep et al. (2021), also discussed the potential usage
of this conceptual model. Subsequently, Wang et al.
(2022a) have advanced the proof-of-concept work for
multi-person collaborative design. However, the existing
methods for BIM incremental changes encounter several
limitations: (i) inefficient computation due to the O(n2)
complexity in solving the longest common subsequence
problem between IFC entities across versions (Xue and
Lu, 2020); (ii) unsatisfactory redundancy minimization
due to IFC entities (such as IfcOpeningElement and
IfcShapeRepresentation) generated by the black-box
conversion by commercial BIM software (Solihin et al.
2015); and (iii) lack of semantics traceability for BIM
objects for construction engineering management context.
The three theoretical defects hinder exchanging semantic
changes of BIM on the real projects’ application.
In summary, the distributed exchange paradigm offers
the best traceability and security, and higher data redundancy among the three exchange paradigms. However,
current research on utilizing blockchain for BIM data
exchange remains at the theoretical or proof-of-concept
stage due to data redundancy and limited semantic traceability. Thus, the minimization of data redundancy and
maximization of semantic traceability, which are the critical enablers to the distributed BIM data exchange
paradigm, can be a crucial breakthrough to advance open
BIM exchange in theory. Furthermore, Blockchain 3.0 is
a promising and user-friendly technology for BIM practitioners in construction engineering management.

3

The conceptual framework

The conceptual framework of this paper is shown in
Fig. 1. The framework consists of three layers from top to
bottom: (1) the application layer, (2) the tSDT approach,
and (3) the Blockchain 3.0 framework. The uppermost
application layer, which hosts a web-based DApp named
openBIMdisk, connects to the distributed BIM exchange.

514

Front. Eng. Manag. 2025, 12(3): 510–528

Fig. 1

Conceptual framework of this paper (newly proposed concept and processes highlighted in red).

In this paper, the second layer is the most sophisticated.
The tSDT model layer captures and indexes all the
semantically changed BIM objects for blockchain-ready
storage and traceability. The third layer plugs in the
blockchain backbone with a novel BIM change contract
(BCC1) and BIM change cache (BCC2).
The proposed framework of this paper revolves the
SDT model in two aspects, i.e., BIM change model and
blockchain-based exchange. Regarding the BIM change
model, our tSDT model resolves, wholly or partially, the
three theoretical defects of its precedent SDT model
described in Section 2.3. The key innovation of tSDT
includes two new mapping dictionaries between IFCGUIDs, IFCJSON-UUIDs, and tSDT-UIDs that generated
through semantic traceability, and a novel two-step
semantic traceability operation to systematize changed
semantic identifiers. On the blockchain-based exchange,
our novel blockchain 3.0 framework partially response to
the traceability defects of its precedent SDT model. The
novel BCC2 contains a locally cached database for BIM
change model and communicates with the general

blockchain backbone. Through integrating the novel
BCC1 and BCC2 with blockchain backbone, the
Blockchain 3.0 framework enables swift traceability of
both on-chain and off-chain records of the BIM change
model.

4

The tSDT model

4.1

The semantic interoperability

The semantic interoperability involves pre-processing
IFC files for in-depth semantic analysis and computation.
The IFC files undergo a systematic hierarchy to streamline
IFC semantics. Two dictionaries are then constructed to
map IFC elements among IFC-GUIDs, IFCJSONUUIDs, and tSDT-UIDs. Three main operations, namely
semantic hierarchy, de-randomization, and semantic
traceability, are employed, as shown in Fig. 1. This
section focuses on the newly introduced semantic traceability, while briefly discussing the other two operations

Lingming KONG et al. Open BIM exchange on Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk

inherited from SDT to ensure model consistency and
clarity.

4.1.1

Semantic hierarchy

The semantic hierarchy operation processes STEP or
JSON encoded IFC files with ‘.ifc’ or ‘.ifcjson’ extensions. The output is a structural tree-like objects dictionary
that illustrates the relationships between rooted objects
(such as IfcWindow) and their non-rooted properties and
materials. This organization and ordering of the original
cluttered one-to-many relationships between IFC objects
enhance clarity and understanding.

4.1.2

De-randomization

The de-randomization operation aims to replace all
randomly generated IFCJSON-UUIDs with constant
tSDT-UIDs based on attributes or content to ensure
consistency. First, a group of entities that have specific
attributes (such as names, tags, and object types) are
selected, and their UUIDs are replaced by integrating the
attributes string. If the required attributes cannot be found
in object instances, such as IfcPropertySets that describe
the non-geometric properties of building components, a
hashing function is used to create a short content-based
string. This hashing function, commonly used in
blockchain technology, efficiently generates constant
tSDT-UIDs. Additionally, the references for the derandomized objects are updated.

4.1.3

Semantic traceability

The semantic traceability feature is designed to track the
changes of IFC-GUIDs during the tSDT processing. As
depicted in Fig. 2, semantic traceability consists of two
separate steps. The first step creates a one-to-one
mapping dictionary (D1) between IFC-GUIDs and IFCJ-

Fig. 2

515

SON-UUIDs, while it also converts the IFC file into an
IFCJSON format. Then, during the streamlining of the
semantic hierarchy of IFCJSON objects, the semantic
traceability operation records the one-to-multiple
mapping (D2) between IFCJSON-UUIDs and tSDTUIDs. This mapping relationship between original IFC
objects and semantic hierarchy objects enables semantic
traceability. Furthermore, the one-to-multiple mapping
dictionary between IFCJSON-UUIDs and tSDT-UIDs
allows for the elimination of redundant semantics.
Redundant semantics in IFC refer to objects that have
identical contents but different IFC-GUIDs. In an IFC
file, object instances of the same type often have repetitive
geometry presentations, properties, and relationships. For
example, in Autodesk Revit, families represent object
types of IFC and can be reused to create multiple physical
building components. Although the family instances have
identical shapes, materials, and other properties, the
exported IFC files contain similar contents with different
IFC-GUIDs. In an actual construction project, such similar
objects can occupy up to 30% of the size of IFC files,
reducing the efficiency of information exchange.
Through the de-randomization and semantic traceability
processing, IFC objects are updated to have identical IFCGUIDs, and tSDT-UIDs are updated based on the
content. The mapping dictionary stores a one-to-multiple
structure as ‘{tSDT-UID: [IFC-GUID 1, IFC-GUID
2, …]}’. Based on this mapping relationship, only the
first IFC-GUID with index 0 is retained, and object
instances containing the remaining listed IFC-GUIDs are
removed. The complexity of this algorithm is O(nlogn)
due to binary research.

4.2

tSDT processing

The tSDT processing facilitates the bi-directional computation of semantic hierarchies to capture and restore
semantic differences to IFC. Figure 3 demonstrates that
this bi-directional computation is accomplished through

Two steps of the semantic traceability operation.

516

Front. Eng. Manag. 2025, 12(3): 510–528

the tSDT computation function and the tSDT restoration
function. Initially, the trimmed semantic hierarchy (i.e.,
i f c0 and i f c1 ) is inputted into two tree objects (i.e., θ0
and θ1 ) through the semantic interoperability pre-processing. As a result, both θ0 and θ1 are devoid of extraneous
data such as STEP line numbers and IFC-GUIDs. Subsequently, the common sections of the two objects ( θ∗ ) are
computed, and the modified instances (i.e., θ0c and θ1c )
are retained after removing the intersecting parts from the
entire semantic hierarchy. Finally, the tree-comparison
algorithms calculate the difference between the modified
parts (i.e., ∆θ ). As the BIM evolves incrementally, a
series of tSDT results are stored in the proposed system
in a chain structure as ( i f c0 , ∆θ1 , ∆θ2 , …, ∆θt ), where i f c0
denotes the base model and ∆θt represents the disparity
between two semantic hierarchies at time t.
The tSDT restoration function ensures that the
computed semantic differences are restored back to IFC.
Initially, the missing reference objects in the tSDT results
are added based on the mapping dictionary of IFCJSONUUIDs and tSDT-UIDs, which is generated by the
semantic traceability operation in Section 4.1.3 (Semantic
traceability). Subsequently, the semantic hierarchy at a
specific time can be retrieved by “adding” the integrated
tSDT results ( ∆∗ ). Finally, the IFC in STEP format is
generated by converting the IFCJSON to IFC.
Moreover, the tSDT processing indexes two mapping
dictionaries for semantic traceability. To realize the
dictionaries, a local relational database is designed.
Figure 4 illustrates how example traceability-related
attributes are stored in the relational model. The relational
model keeps a record of BIM changes with keys such as
the transaction ID (transID), tSDT-UID, and transaction
time (transTime). One attribute of particular importance
is the ‘isRVTobj’, which is a Boolean data type used to
determine if an IFC entity is a building component within
Revit, commonly known as a ‘Revit Object’. This
distinction is crucial, as a ‘Revit Object’ possesses an
internal ID that enables easy querying of building components. When the value of ‘isRVTobj’ is false, the ‘relationGUID’ represents the reference Revit Object. For
example, for an IfcPropertySet, the ‘relationGUID’ refers
to its related building component, such as an IfcDoor.

Fig. 3

The indexed data are housed in the local database, as
depicted in Fig. 4(a), and are connected to the blockchain
network via the transaction ID (transID), as shown in
Fig. 4(b). This seamless integration enables efficient
access to and utilization of the indexed data within the
blockchain context.

5

The openBIMdisk virtual disk

The proposed openBIMdisk implements the tSDT
approach based on the Blockchain 3.0 framework. As
depicted in Fig. 1, our Blockchain 3.0 framework
enhances the conventional Blockchain 2.0 backbone with
the BCC 2 . The cache BCC 2 enables offline data storage,
synchronization, and query. Additionally, the openBIMdisk aims to provide user-friendly interfaces for BIM
project stakeholders to exchange BIM files and semanticlevel changes over indirect interactions with the
Blockchain 3.0. Thus, the Blockchain 3.0 framework can
supplement effective and secure BIM exchange functions, by resolving the third challenges summarized in
Section 2.

5.1

A Blockchain 3.0 framework

This paper extends the Blockchain 3.0 framework
proposed by Zhao et al. (2023), to address issues related
to Internet connectivity and response time of querying
large-scale BIM files. The primary objective is to
enhance the synchronization of open BIM changes
computed by tSDT. Figure 5 conceptualizes the components in the Blockchain 3.0 framework. The framework
consists of two layers, i.e., the cached layer and the data
adaptor layer. The cached layer facilitates offline data
storage and offers indexing, querying, and analysis, for
front-end user functions and back-end data synchronization. In comparison, the data adaptor layer aims to
support the cached layer to Blockchain 2.0 (Hyperledger
Fabric ver. 2.5), such as automatic off-chain data
synchronization when an active Internet connection is reestablished. The Blockchain 3.0 framework ensures

Procedures of the bi-directional computation of semantic hierarchy.

Lingming KONG et al. Open BIM exchange on Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk

517

Fig. 4 An example of the relational model between the indexed offline data and on-chain transactions: (a) local indexing of BIM
changes for exchange; (b) transactions in the blockchain network.

Fig. 5 Structure of the adopted Blockchain 3.0 backbone
(Zhao et al., 2023).

smooth data transition between offline and online environments.
With the cached layer, BIM exchange activities are
cached as transactions in the BIM change contract
(BCC1). Each transaction in BCC1, besides containing a
timestamp, consists of the following six components:

• BIM exchange channel: A permissioned channel for
project BIM access control,
• User ID: A unique ID for BIM stakeholders who
submit the transaction,
• Change action: Boolean value, either tSDT_compute
or tSDT_restore,
• BIM base version: The version of the base (or a millstone version) BIM,
• BIM target version: Target BIM version for semantic
differentials or restorations,
• File information: Semi-structured data of IFC file
details, including encoded tSDT results, file path, size,
and type, and
• Timestamp.
Table 3 provides two sample transactions, illustrating
the information contained in BCC1. When the change
action is tSDT_compute, the file information includes the
Base64 encoded tSDT results. However, if the action is
tSDT_restore, only the metadata of the resulting IFC files
is included, given the large size of IFC files that exceeds
the block capacity.

518

Front. Eng. Manag. 2025, 12(3): 510–528

Figure 6 illustrates the workflows of the proposed
Blockchain 3.0 framework for semantic BIM exchange.
The workflow begins with a user initiating a request to
upload or query data for semantic-level BIM exchanges.
The request is then validated and preprocessed by BCC1.
If the request aligns with the specified data format in the
BCC1 and is authorized, it must be signed and submitted
by the authorized user. This initiates a two-step process
involving interactions with the Blockchain 3.0 cache and
the Blockchain 2.0 backbone. Initially, BCC1
autonomously forwards the request data to BCC2. Once
the request is received, BCC2 confirms the request and
indexes the data in preparation for communication with
the Blockchain 2.0 backbone. If the network is accessible, BCC2 passes on the request, impacting the state of
the Blockchain 2.0 network. Subsequently, the resulting
Table 3

outcome is transmitted back as a second response,
accompanied by the updated transaction hash.

5.2

Application layer

A web-based DApp openBIMdisk is designed with GUI
to facilitate BIM authors and practitioners. Figure 7
displays the sketch designs of the GUI of openBIMdisk.
Figure 7(a) presents the front page of the DApp, guiding
users to three essential pages: tSDT-powered BIM
change management (including computation and restoration), tSDT-powered BIM change searching, and
blockchain backbone information.
Figure 7(b) provides an overview of the conceptual
GUI for the tSDT processing functions. The main functions
for BIM stakeholders include uploading IFC or IFCJSON

Example transactions of BIM change contract (BCC1)

BIM exchange channel

User ID

Change action

BIM base version

BIM target version

File information (semi-structured)

Channel A

ID001

tSDT_compute

V0

V1

Channel A

ID002

tSDT_restore

V4

V1

{”sdt”: “[Base64_text],” “url”: “…”}
{”url”: “…,” “fileName”: “V1.ifc,”
“fileSize”: “135MB”}

Fig. 6

Workflow of the adopted Blockchain 3.0 framework.

Lingming KONG et al. Open BIM exchange on Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk

519

Fig. 7 Sketch design of graphical interfaces of the openBIMdisk: (a) Front page; (b) tSDT-powered BIM changes calculation and
storage; (c) tSDT-powered BIM changes searching; (d) blockchain backbone information.

files, automating the tSDT process to capture semantic
differences, and restoring the historical BIM version
given a specific date. Users can also download the BIM
changes as tSDT files. Figure 4 illustrates that the
outcomes of the processing steps are initially stored in the
local virtual disk. Subsequently, the indexed data is saved
into the cached database from the virtual disk. Ultimately,
the semantic-level BIM changes are automatically
decoded and uploaded as transactions to the blockchain,
contingent upon Internet availability.
Figure 7(c) displays the functionality provided for users
to trace semantic-level BIM changes. Within the BIM
model, a search box allows users to query the semantic
changes for specific building modules by either selecting
the module in the BIM model or entering the module’s
name. The search results are presented in a table. Furthermore, BIM stakeholders can review on-chain records
through the Blockchain monitor page, as depicted in
Fig. 7(d). The trace function of openBIMdisk enables
users to query semantic-level BIM changes independently
from the Internet, ensuring unaffected by information
delays.

5.3

Software implementation

The development of openBIMdisk adhered to the
proposed framework presented in Fig. 1. The bottom
Blockchain 3.0 framework was internally developed
based on Hyperledger Fabric (ver. 2.5). BCC1 was

deployed in JavaScript, and BCC2 was realized through a
local relational database (SQLite, ver. 3.43). The tSDT
model was implemented using Python3, compatible with
IFCJSON standards up to ver. 4. Example screenshots of
the four interfaces of openBIMdisk developed on the
Flask web application framework (ver. 2.2) and Python3
are shown in Fig. 8.
A benchmark test was conducted to compare the
performance of two popular blockchain frameworks:
Hyperledger Fabric and FISCO BCOS (ver. 3.6). The test
configuration is presented in Fig. 9, where Fig. 9(a)
demonstrates the Hyperledger Caliper configuration for
Fabric testing, and Fig. 9(b) illustrates the Java SDK testing
toolkit configuration for FISCO BCOS. As Hyperledger
Caliper does not support benchmark testing for FISCO
BCOS version 3.6, the official Java SDK testing toolkit
for FISCO BCOS was utilized. The transaction count was
set to 300, and the number of worker processes was set to
3. The comparison results are listed in Table 4. Notably,
BCOS only required 27.6% of the time taken by Fabric to
process 300 transactions. However, Fabric outperforms in
terms of usability, as it supports multiple languages, such
as Go, Java, Node.js, for compiling smart contracts.
Additionally, Fabric was initially designed as a crossindustry application, aiming to build a common framework
for different domains. FISCO BCOS performs worse than
Fabric in terms of usability and cross-industry applications. FISCO BCOS primarily supports the Solidity
language for smart contracts and is mainly utilized in the

520

Front. Eng. Manag. 2025, 12(3): 510–528

Fig. 8 Screenshots of the implemented openBIMdisk virtual disk: (a) Home page with project brief; (b) tSDT-powered BIM changes
page; (c) Semantic BIM change query results and (d) Information of blockchain storage.

Fig. 9

Configurations of the benchmark test for (a) Fabric by Caliper, (b) FISCO-BCOS by Java SDK.

Table 4 Comparison between Fabric and FISCO-BCOS (best value
in each row in bold).
Metric

Fabric

FISCO BCOS

Time cost (ms)

115.38

31.89

Usability
Application
scenarios

High
Cross-industry
applications

Middle
Mainly for financial
industry

financial industry. Since BIM data exchanges are not as
frequent as financial transactions, the time cost of Fabric
is deemed acceptable. As a result, Hyperledger Fabric is
employed as the foundation of the Blockchain 2.0
network in this study.

6

A case study

6.1

Experimental settings

A case study was conducted to demonstrate the functionality of tSDT and openBIMdisk using a modular
construction project consisting of two 19-level buildings,
as shown in Fig. 10. The BIM model in Fig. 10(a) was
created using Autodesk Revit 2019 and exported as the
IFC2x3 Coordination View 3.0 schema. The decision to
use IFC 2x3 instead of the more recent IFC4 was due to
limited support for IFC4 in Revit 2019. Additionally,
IFC4 partitions the full BIM semantics into two

Lingming KONG et al. Open BIM exchange on Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk

components, the Reference View and Design Transfer
View, which could introduce additional variables to
control in the experiments. The BIM model went through
daily versioning, resulting in a total of 129 versions ranging
from ver. 1 to ver. 313, with skips on non-progressive
days. The size of the input IFC files varied from 134 MB
to 136 MB across the 129 different versions.
In Fig. 10(b), the BIM exchange was required to
synchronize daily inspections of modular building
components manufactured in distributed factories. This
collaborative environment involved three key BIM stakeholders: a contractor, a regulator, and a project manager.
The contractor initiated the process by uploading daily
inspection data, including inspection tasks and photographic records. Subsequently, the regulator and project
manager sequentially reviewed and authorized the data.
The interactive manipulations resulted in local semantic
changes to the BIM model before reaching blockchain
consensus. Finally, the validated results were sent back to
the contractor, while the global semantic changes were
updated in the openBIMdisk with the blockchain consensus. The collaboration process involved multiple
interactive stages among the BIM stakeholders, making
the determination of BIM versions crucial. In the tests, a
new BIM version was defined daily, indicating that the
BIM version changed after daytime inspection and authorization work.
Figure 11 depicts two pilot tests conducted in this
paper. The first test, a comparison test against the SDT,

was designed to evaluate the progress achieved by the
tSDT approach. This test involved 30 different versions
of BIM. The process began by applying both the tSDT
and SDT methods to the IFC files. The results were then
compared based on various factors, including computation
time, file size, and the level of BIM semantic redundancy.
The second test, a scale-up test of openBIMdisk, served
two purposes. The first purpose is to assess the feasibility
of semantic-level BIM exchange and historical version
recovery using 129 versions of the BIM from the project
record. The other purpose is to evaluate the efficiency
and traceability of semantic-level BIM changes in the
openBIMdisk virtual disk.
The deployed consortium blockchain network consists
of the following components: (1) one channel named
“bscchannel” (short for BIM semantic changes channel);
(2) three organizations - Org1 representing the contractor
company, Org2 representing regulator representatives,
and Org3 representing owner organizations; (3) three
peer nodes, with one peer node assigned to each organization. The configuration of the blockchain is illustrated
in Fig. 12. Figure 12(a) shows the three organizations and
their corresponding peer nodes. Figure 12(b) outlines the
network settings, including the number of messages
batched into a block and the endorsement policy.
Figure 12(c) provides details on the channel configuration, including the organizations and profiles configuration.

Fig. 10 A case BIM project for a modular construction: (a) 3D view of the BIM; (b) daily BIM exchange scenario for modular components
inspection.

Fig. 11

521

Two test cases: (a) a performance test of tSDT model; (b) A scale-up test of openBIMdisk.

522

Front. Eng. Manag. 2025, 12(3): 510–528

Fig. 12 Configuration of the developed consortium blockchain network: (a) Organizations and peer nodes; (b) settings of the network;
(c) channel configuration.

6.2
6.2.1

Experimental results
Results of the performance test

For each IFC model, two mapping dictionaries of semantic
identifiers are generated: (1) the one-to-one mapping
dictionary of IFC-GUIDs and IFCJSON-UUIDs; and (2)
the one-to-multiple semantic dictionary of IFCJSONUUIDs and tSDT-UIDs. The average size of the two
mapping dictionaries is 2.13 MB and 6.3 MB, respectively. The average number of semantic items in the IFC
models is 30,322. Partial examples of the two dictionaries
are displayed in Fig. 13.
Table 5 presents the average results of the comparative
tests conducted to assess the effects of the two new
dictionaries. The complete results can be found in the
Supplementary material. Over the 30 versions of BIM
files, the SDT method yielded an average of 12.3 kB of
minimum incremental BIM changes in 325.8 s. The
proposed tSDT approach in this paper resulted in 9.7 kB
of minimum incremental BIM changes, saving 21.4%
more disk space and data transmission than SDT.
Furthermore, the tSDT method required an average of
94.0 s, which was 71.1% faster than SDT.
The quantities of IfcShapeRepresentation and
IfcOpeningElement in Table 5 explain the technical
details for the considerable improvement done by tSDT.
The two classes of IFC entities represent ‘black box’
reported entities. The experimental results demonstrate

that tSDT reduced the average quantity of IfcShapeRepresentation by 43.4% and the quantity of IfcOpeningElements by 82.1%. As a result, tSDT outperformed SDT in
terms of minimal incremental BIM changes.
The effect of the two-step semantic traceability operation
was also verified. Figure 14 illustrates the redundancy in
SDT’s output using an example. SDT captured two shape
representations that describe two window opening
elements, where all properties are identical except for
their respective global IDs. The tSDT approach eliminates
such redundant semantic changes through the semantic
traceability operation.

6.2.2

Results of the scale-up test

Table 6 presents the overall results from the scale-up test,
which involved 129 versions of BIM files. The average
computation and restoration time costs for tSDT were
both under 100 s, and the average size of tSDT files was
9.64 < 10 kB. Considering each BIM file was over
130 MB, the captured tSDT results comprised only
0.007% of the IFC file size. Hyperledger Fabric’s officially
recommended block size of 512 kB can accommodate
around 50 BIM versions per day. Therefore, the tSDT
approach scales effectively from laboratory tests to realworld construction projects. Additionally, the results
were uploaded and synchronized on the Blockchain 3.0
network, obtaining automatic approval from BIM stakeholders through the BIM change contract.

Lingming KONG et al. Open BIM exchange on Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk

523

Fig. 13 Partial example of (a) 1-to-1 mapping dictionary of IFC-GUIDs and IFCJSON-UUIDs, and (b) 1-to-multiple semantic dictionary
of IFCJSON-UUIDs -UUIDs and tSDT-UIDs.
Table 5

Comparison of SDT and tSDT on computing the differentials between the 30 versions of BIM files

Performance metric

Average of SDT

Average of tSDT

Improvement

Incremental BIM change (kB)

12.3

9.7

21.4%

Computational time (s)

325.8

94.0

71.1%

No. of IfcShapeRepresentation

39.6

22.4

43.4%

5.5

82.1%

No. of IfcOpeningElements

6.2.3

30.7

Results of object-level BIM semantics traceability

Another experiment conducted queries of semantic BIM
changes at the object level, following customary practices
of BIM stakeholders. Figure 15 provides an example of
the query results for Module ‘B-16-S-14’, highlighting
the target BIM object in the interactive 3D view. The test
was based on the observation that inspectors typically
focus on changes in prefinished modules rather than individual properties for the pilot project. The average query
response time was 5.3 ms, indicating swift response due
to the local cached database. Furthermore, the query
consistently responded to users’ queries irrespective of
whether the system was operating offline or online.
However, the most recent changes may not have been
synchronized to the interface when Blockchain 3.0 was
offline. The millisecond-level response time demonstrates
the efficiency, traceability, and security of openBIMdisk.

7 Discussion
The findings in this paper makes a twofold contribution,
to both theoretical and practical aspects. First, tSDT is a
state-of-the-art, distributed BIM change model, which
contributes to the knowledge of blockchain BIM and
BIM exchange. The key innovation of tSDT lies in two
new mapping dictionaries, i.e., IFC-GUIDs, IFCJSONUUIDs, and tSDT-UIDs, which are generated through

semantic traceability. The novel two-step semantic traceability operation is introduced to systemize changed
semantic identifiers. Experimental results demonstrate
that tSDT outperforms its predecessor, SDT, regarding
computation efficiency and semantic redundancy elimination. Notably, tSDT facilitates object-level BIM
semantic changes traceability through the two mapping
dictionaries, thus enabling the industrial application of
BIM exchange via blockchain. In the case of blockchainbased exchange, our blockchain 3.0 framework addresses
the traceability issues of the preceding SDT model. To be
specific, the novel BCC2 incorporates a locally cached
database for the BIM change model and communicates
with the general blockchain backbone. Consequently, our
Blockchain 3.0 framework ensures swift traceability of
both on-chain and off-chain records of the BIM change
model. By minimizing BIM semantic changes and maximizing traceability at the object level, our tSDT propels
the proof-of-concept of Blockchain BIM data exchange
toward realistic project applications.
The second practical contribution is openBIMdisk, a
web-based Blockchain 3.0 DApp virtual disk that facilitates intuitive and traceable semantics-level BIM
exchange for practitioners. openBIMdisk introduces three
significant advancements for industrial practices. First,
the Blockchain 3.0 backbone ensures fast traceability of
both on-chain and off-chain records of BIM semantic
changes through the BIM change cache. Secondly, the
BIM change contract deployed on the blockchain
network guarantees automatic uploading and concurrent

524

Front. Eng. Manag. 2025, 12(3): 510–528

Fig. 14

An example of redundant semantic entities in SDT’s results, which is addressed by the proposed tSDT

Table 6

Scale-up test of tSDT on all the versions of BIM files

Item

tSDT computational
time (s)
97.32

Incremental BIM
change (kB on disk)
9.64

BIM restoration
time (s)
89.81

Min

86.13

3.51

75.83

Max

168.48

206

153.34

Std. dev.

7.41

17.54

9.32

Average

approval of BIM changes among all relevant parties.
Finally, openBIMdisk offers a concise and user-friendly
interface, empowering BIM stakeholders to efficiently
engage in semantics-level BIM exchange.
However, this paper does have some limitations. One
limitation is that the tSDT captured certain unexpected
semantic changes. For example, a baseSurface changed
unexpectedly from ‘firstOperand’ to ‘secondOperand’
(Fig. 16). While tSDT identified this change as a semantic
change due to distinct key values, it may be considered
redundant if the operands were defined as swappable.
Another limitation is that the hashing function used in
blockchain and the tSDT approach is content-based. This

means that even a minor byte-level change, such as the
length being saved as 1.7999999523 m instead of 1.8 m
(due to float precision on computers) in IFC files, can
result in completely different hash values for tSDT-UIDs.
Therefore, future research could focus on refining the
definitions and conversion of IFC semantics.
Furthermore, the paper also has notable limitations
related to the pre-processing of IFC files, which was the
most time-consuming part of tSDT. For example, openBIMdisk took an average of 16 min in Python3 scripting
language to load and transform a 130MB IFC file in the
test from STEP format to IFCJSON format. To address
this limitation and substantially improve pre-processing,
future solutions could consider either multi-threading
IFCJSON conversion programs in C++ language or multithreading export add-ins for native commercial BIM
vendor software.
Another limitation of the case study was the limited
type of semantic changes considered. The semantic
changes mainly reflected inspection records of updates,
approvals, and rejections from three stakeholders during
the construction stage of the case project. Future

Lingming KONG et al. Open BIM exchange on Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk

Fig. 15

525

An example of querying object-level BIM semantic changes of Module “B-16-S-14” (highlighted in the 3D view).

Fig. 16 A redundant semantic changes example: a sequence changes of two base surface in (a) the previous BIM version and (b) the
latest BIM version.

researchers may be interested in applying openBIMdisk
and tSDT to collaborative BIM design in the design stage
(Sacks et al., 2022) and electronic BIM submission in the

vetting stage.
Lastly, openBIMdisk presented in this paper was
designed with the essential functionality of a virtual disk

526

Front. Eng. Manag. 2025, 12(3): 510–528

for BIM exchange. Readers and BIM practitioners are
suggested to expand and develop new applicationspecific functions on top of openBIMdisk. Example functions include interpretable machine learning of a project’s
BIM change patterns (Liang and Xue, 2023) for information extraction (Wang et al., 2022b), BIM project documentation (Singh and Anumba, 2023), BIM automation
based on deep learning of semantic changes (Chen and
Xue, 2023), and artificial intelligence-based construction
management (Yu and Gong, 2024).

8 Conclusions
BIM’s importance is increasing in construction engineering management. Integrating BIM and blockchain is a
new trend that can benefit efficient, effective, and secure
open BIM exchanges for distributed collaboration and
BIM versioning. However, two problems of data redundancy and traceability challenges hinder the integration
of blockchain and BIM. As the de facto standard for BIM
exchange, the IFC format is open to many BIM entities
but lacks semantically traceable changes between the
versions. The two problems lead to a dilemma when there
are overwhelming versions of a BIM project to exchange
and track the changes at object level.
This paper proposes a novel tSDT model to resolve the
two problems for blockchain BIM integration, by minimizing BIM redundancy and maximizing object-level
traceability between versions. The tSDT model utilizes
two new mapping dictionaries to enhance traceability and
efficiency. To facilitate tSDT applications in industrial
settings, this paper develops an open-source DApp
named openBIMdisk. The openBIMdisk enables BIM
exchange with minimal data redundancy and tracks
object-level BIM semantic changes using a Blockchain
3.0 framework and intuitive graphical interfaces.
The experimental results of a case study demonstrated
that tSDT successfully stored changes as small as 10 kB
(< 0.007% of BIM file size) within a reasonable operation
time of 94.01 s between 134 MB BIM files. Additionally,
openBIMdisk was validated in real construction projects
involving the integration of BIM and blockchain, where
object-level BIM semantic changes could be extracted in
milliseconds.
This paper also identifies four limitations, which may
also highlight future research directions. One future
direction is the development of systematic models to
address byte-level IFC redundancy and opaque BIM
conversion processes. Another notable future research is
the creation of multithreading IFC conversion and transformation tools by commercial BIM platforms and the
open BIM community. Furthermore, BIM practitioners
are suggested to extend the open-sourced tSDT and
expand the functionality of openBIMdisk to meet the
business demands in design, vetting, and facility

management stages of construction engineering management.
Electronic Supplementary Material Supplementary material is available
in the online version of this article at https://doi.org/10.1007/s42524-0244006-x and is accessible for authorized users.
Competing Interests
interests.

The authors declare that they have no competing

Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution
4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution
and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate
credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative
Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made.
The images or other third party material in this article are included in the
article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit
line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative
Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission
directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.

References
Afsari K, Eastman C, Castro-Lacouture D (2017). JavaScript Object
Notation (JSON) data serialization for IFC schema in web-based
BIM data exchange. Automation in Construction, 77: 24–51
Afsari K, Eastman C, Shelden D (2016). Cloud-based BIM data transmission: current status and challenges. In: Proceedings of the 33rd
International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction. IAARC Publications
Angelis J, Ribeiro da Silva E (2019). Blockchain adoption: A value
driver perspective. Business Horizons, 62(3): 307–314
Belotti M, Božić N, Pujolle G, Secci S (2019). A vademecum on
blockchain technologies: When, which, and how. IEEE Communications Surveys and Tutorials, 21(4): 3796–3838
Berlo L V, Krijnen T, Tauscher H, Liebich T, Kranenburg A V,
Paasiala P (2021). Future of the Industry Foundation Classes:
Towards IFC 5. In: Proceedings of the 38th International Conference
of CIB W78: 123–137. Luxembourg: CIB. Retrieved from the
website of scix.net
Bodkhe U, Tanwar S, Parekh K, Khanpara P, Tyagi S, Kumar N,
Alazab M (2020). Blockchain for Industry 4.0: A comprehensive
review. IEEE Access: Practical Innovations, Open Solutions, 8:
79764–79800
Boje C, Guerriero A, Kubicki S, Rezgui Y (2020). Towards a semantic
Construction Digital Twin: Directions for future research. Automation in Construction, 114: 103179
Borrmann A, Beetz J, Koch C, Liebich T, Muhic S (2018). Industry
Foundation Classes: A standardized data model for the vendorneutral exchange of digital building models. In Borrmann A, König
M, Koch C, eds. Building Information Modeling: Technology
Foundations and Industry Practice. Springer: 81–125
bSI (2023). Industry Foundation Classes. buildingSMART International. Available at the weksite of buildingsmart.org
Celik Y, Petri I, Barati M (2023a). Blockchain supported BIM data
provenance for construction projects. Computers in Industry, 144:

Lingming KONG et al. Open BIM exchange on Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk

103768
Celik Y, Petri I, Rezgui Y (2023b). Integrating BIM and blockchain
across construction lifecycle and supply chains. Computers in
Industry, 148: 103886
Chen K (2018). The quest for the holy grail: Bridging BIM and building
for information management in construction. HKU Thesis Online
(HKUTO)
Chen K, Zhou X, Bao Z, Skibniewski M J, Fang W (2024). Artificial
intelligence in infrastructure construction: A critical review. Frontiers
of Engineering Management, doi:10.1007/s42524-024-3128-5
Chen S H, Xue F (2023). Automatic BIM detailing using deep features
of 3D views. Automation in Construction, 148: 104780
Das M, Tao X, Cheng J (2021). BIM security: A critical review and
recommendations using encryption strategy and blockchain.
Automation in Construction, 126: 103682
Deng Y, Gan V J, Das M, Cheng J C, Anumba C (2019). Integrating
4D BIM and GIS for construction supply chain management. Journal
of Construction Engineering and Management, 145(4): 04019016
Eastman C, Teicholz P, Sacks R, Liston K (2008). BIM for the
construction industry. In: BIM Handbook: A Guide to Building
Information Modeling for Owners, Managers, Designers, Engineers, and Contractors. John Wiley and Sons, Inc
Erri Pradeep A, Yiu T, Zou Y, Amor R (2021). Blockchain-aided
information exchange records for design liability control and
improved security. Automation in Construction, 126: 103667
Figueiredo K, Hammad A W, Haddad A, Tam V W (2022). Assessing
the usability of blockchain for sustainability: Extending key themes
to the construction industry. Journal of Cleaner Production, 343:
131047
Gui N, Wang C, Qiu Z, Gui W, Deconinck G (2019). IFC-Based
partial data model retrieval for distributed collaborative design.
Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, 33(3): 04019016
Guo H, Zhou Y, Ye X, Luo Z, Xue F (2020). Automated mapping
from an IFC data model to a relational database model. Journal of
Tsinghua University, 61(2): 152–160 (in Chinese)
Hakimi O, Liu H, Abudayyeh O (2024). Digital twin-enabled smart
facility management: A bibliometric review. Frontiers of
Engineering Management, 11(1): 32–49
Hastig G, Sodhi M (2020). Blockchain for supply chain traceability:
Business requirements and critical success factors. Production and
Operations Management, 29(4): 935–954
Hijazi A, Perera S, Calheiros R, Alashwal A (2021). Rationale for the
integration of BIM and blockchain for the construction supply
chain data delivery: A systematic literature review and validation
through focus group. Journal of Construction Engineering and
Management, 147(10): 03121005
ISO (2016). Industrial automation systems and integration — Product
data representation and exchange — Part 21: Implementation methods: Clear text encoding of the exchange structure, ISO
10303–21:2016
Kong L, Chen C, Zhao R, Chen Z, Wu L, Yang Z, Li X, Lu W, Xue F
(2022). When permissioned blockchain meets IoT oracles: An onchain quality assurance system for off-shore modular construction
manufacture. In: 2022 IEEE 1st Global Emerging Technology
Blockchain Forum: Blockchain and Beyond (iGETblockchain),
Irvine CA, USA: IEEE
Kong L, Xue F (2023). Addressing BIM versioning challenges: A
blockchain-ready IFC schema extension for semantic change

527

management. In: Proceedings of the 28th International Symposium
on Advancement of Construction Management and Real Estate,
Springer
Kong L, Zhao R, Xue F (2024). Zero-Knowledge Proof for trusted
construction management: A preliminary study of adaptive
blockchain BIM identity authentication. In: Proceedings of the 23rd
International Conference on Construction Applications of Virtual
Reality, Florence Italy: University of Florence Press
Krijnen T, Beetz J (2020). An efficient binary storage format for IFC
building models using HDF5 hierarchical data format. Automation
in Construction, 113: 103134
Laakso M, Kiviniemi A (2012). The IFC standard: A review of history,
development, and standardization, Information technology. Journal
of Information Technology in Construction, 17(9): 134–161
Lai H, Deng X (2018). Interoperability analysis of IFC-based data
exchange between heterogeneous BIM software. Journal of Civil
Engineering and Management, 24(7): 537–555
Lee D, Lee S H, Masoud N, Krishnan M, Li V C (2021a). Integrated
digital twin and blockchain framework to support accountable
information sharing in construction projects. Automation in
Construction, 127: 103688
Lee Y C, Eastman C M, Solihin W (2021b). Rules and validation
processes for interoperable BIM data exchange. Journal of Computational Design and Engineering, 8(1): 97–114
Li J, Greenwood D, Kassem M (2019). Blockchain in the built environment and construction industry: A systematic review, conceptual
models and practical use cases. Automation in Construction, 102:
288–307
Li X, Lu W, Xue F, Wu L, Zhao R, Lou J, Xu J (2022). Blockchainenabled IoT-BIM platform for supply chain management in modular
construction. Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 148(2): 04021195
Liang D, Xue F (2023). Integrating automated machine learning and
interpretability analysis in architecture, engineering and construction
industry: A case of identifying failure modes of reinforced concrete
shear walls. Computers in Industry, 147: 103883
Liang D, Chen S-H, Chen Z, Wu Y, Chu L Y, Xue F (2024). 4D point
cloud-based spatial-temporal semantic registration for monitoring
mobile crane construction activities. Automation in Construction,
165: 105576
Lin B, Chen Y, Chen X, Yu Y (2012). Comparison between JSON and
XML in applications based on AJAX. In: 2012 International
Conference on Computer Science and Service System, IEEE
Liu Y, van Nederveen S , Hertogh M (2017). Understanding effects of
BIM on collaborative design and construction: An empirical study
in China. International Journal of Project Management, 35(4):
686–698
Lou J, Lu W, Xue F (2021). A Review of BIM Data Exchange Method
in BIM Collaboration. In: Proceedings of the 25th International
Symposium on Advancement of Construction Management and
Real Estate, Singapore: Springer
Lu W, Lou J, Ababio B K, Zhong R Y, Bao Z, Li X, Xue F (2024).
Digital technologies for construction sustainability: Status quo,
challenges, and future prospects. npj Materials Sustainability, 2(10)
Monrat A, Schelén O, Andersson K (2019). A survey of blockchain
from the perspectives of applications, challenges, and opportunities.
IEEE Access: Practical Innovations, Open Solutions, 7:
117134–117151

528

Front. Eng. Manag. 2025, 12(3): 510–528

Mutis I, Paramashivam A (2019). Cybersecurity management framework
for a cloud-based BIM model, Advances in Informatics and
Computing in Civil and Construction Engineering. Springer International Publishing
Nawari N, Ravindran S (2019). Blockchain and the built environment:
Potentials and limitations. Journal of Building Engineering, 25:
100832
Oraee M, Hosseini M R, Edwards D J, Li H, Papadonikolaki E, Cao D
(2019). Collaboration barriers in BIM-based construction networks:
A conceptual model. International Journal of Project Management,
37(6): 839–854
Perera S, Nanayakkara S, Rodrigo M, Senaratne S, Weinand R (2020).
Blockchain technology: Is it hype or real in the construction
industry? Journal of Industrial Information Integration, 17: 100125
Pinheiro S, Wimmer R, O'Donnell J, Muhic S, Bazjanac V, Maile T,
Frisch J, van Treeck C (2018). MVD based information exchange
between BIM and building energy performance simulation.
Automation in Construction, 90: 91–103
Pradeep A S, Amor R, Yiu T W (2020), Blockchain improving trust in
BIM data exchange: A case study on BIMCHAIN. In: Construction
Research Congress 2020: Computer Applications ASCE
Sacks R, Kedar A, Borrmann A, Mal L, Brilakis I, Hüthwohl P, Daum
S, Kattel U, Yosef R, Liebich T, Barutcu B E, Muhic S (2018).
SeeBridge as next generation bridge inspection: Overview, information delivery manual and model view definition. Automation in
Construction, 90: 134–145
Sacks R, Wang Z, Ouyang B, Utkucu D, Chen S (2022). Toward artificially intelligent cloud-based building information modelling for
collaborative multidisciplinary design. Advanced Engineering
Informatics, 53: 101711
Singh J, Anumba C J (2023). Building commissioning process and
documentation: A literature review and directions for future
research. International Journal of Construction Management, 24(1):
75–85
Solihin W, Eastman C, Lee Y C (2015). Toward robust and quantifiable
automated IFC quality validation. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 29(3): 739–756
Sun C, Zeng X, Sun C, Si H, Li Y (2020). Research and application of
data exchange based on JSON. In: 2020 Asia-Pacific Conference
on Image Processing, Electronics and Computers, IEEE
Sun J, Yan J, Zhang K (2016). Blockchain-based sharing services:
What blockchain technology can contribute to smart cities. Financial
Innovation, 2(1): 26
Swan M (2015). Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy.
Sebastopol CA, USA: O'Reilly Media, Inc.
Tang S, Shelden D, Eastman C, Pishdad-Bozorgi P, Gao X (2020).
BIM assisted building automation system information exchange
using BACnet and IFC. Automation in Construction, 110: 103049
Tao X, Das M, Liu Y, Cheng J (2021). Distributed common data environment using blockchain and interplanetary file system for secure
BIM-based collaborative design. Automation in Construction, 130:
103851
Tao X, Liu Y, Wong P Y, Chen K, Das M, Cheng J (2022). Confidentiality-minded framework for blockchain-based BIM design collaboration. Automation in Construction, 136: 104172

Wang G (2011). Improving data transmission in web applications via
the translation between XML and JSON. In: 2011 Third International
Conference on Communications and Mobile Computing, IEEE
Wang J, Shen Y, Xiong X, Wang X, Fang X (2022a). Research on
multi-person collaborative design of BIM drawing based on
blockchain. Scientific Reports, 12(1): 16312
Wang N, Issa R R, Anumba C J (2022b). NLP-based query-answering
system for information extraction from building information
models. Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, 36(3):
04022004
Wang Z, Ouyang B, Sacks R (2023). Graph-based inter-domain consistency maintenance for BIM models. Automation in Construction,
154: 104979
Wang Z, Wang T, Hu H, Gong J, Ren X, Xiao Q (2020). Blockchainbased framework for improving supply chain traceability and information sharing in precast construction. Automation in Construction,
111: 103063
Wong J, Wang X, Li H, Chan G, Li H (2014). A review of cloud-based
BIM technology in the construction sector. Journal of Information
Technology in Construction, 19: 281–291
Wu J, Zhang J (2019). New automated BIM object classification
method to support BIM interoperability. Journal of Computing in
Civil Engineering, 33(5): 04019033
Wu L, Lu W, Chu L, Chen C (2024). Visualizing blockchain in
construction projects: Status quo, challenges, and a guideline for
implementation. Frontiers of Engineering Management,
doi:10.1007/s42524-024-4034-6
Xu H, Kim J, Chen J (2022). An iterative reference mapping approach
for BIM IFCXML classified content compression. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 54: 101788
Xue F, Lu W (2020). A semantic differential transaction approach to
minimizing information redundancy for BIM and blockchain integration. Automation in Construction, 118: 103270
Yu Z, Gong Y (2024). ChatGPT, AI-generated content, and engineering
management. Frontiers of Engineering Management, 11(1):
159–166
Zhang J, Liu Q, Yu F, Hu Z, Zhao W (2014). A framework of cloudcomputing-based BIM service for building lifecycle. Computing in
Civil and Building Engineering, 1514–1521
Zhao R, Chen Z, Xue F (2023). A Blockchain 3.0 paradigm for digital
twins in construction project management. Automation in
Construction, 145: 104645
Zhao R, Wu Y, Lou J, Chen Z, Wu L, Xue F (2021). Comparison of
BIM collaboration paradigms for digital twin readiness: Centralized
files, decentralized clouds, and distributed blockchains. In:
Proceedings of the 38th International Conference of CIB W78,
Luxembourg: CIB press: 315–325
Zhao X, Feng Y, Pienaar J, O’Brien D (2017). Modelling paths of risks
associated with BIM implementation in architectural, engineering
and construction projects. Architectural Science Review, 60(6):
472–482
Zhao Y, Taib N (2022). Cloud-based Building Information Modelling
(Cloud-BIM): Systematic literature review and bibliometric-qualitative analysis. Automation in Construction, 142: 104468

