Incremental IFC updates with ‘why’ and ‘how’: A case of
IFC extension for LLM agent-enhanced simulation-based
optimization for building energy efficiency
Lingming Kong, Qianyun Zhou, Fan Xue
Department of Real Estate and Construction, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China
u3009509@connect.hku.hk qianyun8@connect.hku.hk xuef@hku.hk
Abstract Simulation-based optimization (SBO) for energyefficient building design exemplifies a typical designchange process that remains disconnected from open
BIM-enabled collaboration. The gap stems from
IFC’s limited capacity to represent the information
generated by SBO. To overcome the limitations, this
study proposes a novel IFC schema extension for
LLM Agent-enhanced SBO, named IfcSboExtension,
that enriches incremental IFC updates with
contextual metadata capturing not only what changed,
but also why the change occurred and how it was
derived. The proposed extension model enables
exchangeable and traceable SBO iterations by
embedding decision rationale and methodological
provenance directly into incremental IFC updates.
The feasibility and value of the extension are
demonstrated through a case study on building
energy efficiency optimization, in which an LLM
agent enhances the interpretability of design changes.
Keywords –
Building information modelling (BIM), Industry
Foundation Classes (IFC), Incremental IFC updates,
Simulation-based optimization (SBO), Large
language model (LLM)

1

Introduction

Building information modelling (BIM) is recognized
as a digital integration of information throughout a
building lifecycle, and increasingly mandated in the AEC
(Architecture, Engineering, and Construction) industry
[1]. BIM-based collaboration has progressively grown to
level 2, namely “open BIM”, which signifies a fully
integrated, collaborative environment for project
stakeholders through federated discipline models and
open exchange standards [2]. Industry foundation classes
(IFC), and ISO 16739-1:2018 standard, are per se open
BIM that provides a vendor-neutral data format for

2086

seamless data exchange between various BIM
applications [3].
However, the scalability and adoption of IFC are
constrained by the monolithic, file-based exchange
paradigm. In practice, BIM stakeholders receive the
modified model as a new monolithic file from
collaborators and check manually to identify the potential
impact on their own disciplines, which is intensive in
labor and prone to errors.
IFC 5, the upcoming modular version, plans to
implement incremental IFC updates to address these
issues [4]. From a theoretical perspective, the transition
toward incremental IFC updates aligns with the processcentric knowledge philosophy [5], which emphasizes that
construction knowledge is dynamic, iterative, and
context-sensitive regarding knowledge dissemination
among project partners. Consequently, the modular
architecture of IFC 5 is expected to better support both
operational efficiency and effective knowledge
management in construction projects.
Simulation-based optimization (SBO) is a typical
design-change process in which design parameters are
iteratively adjusted, leading to modifications to model
design. Recent studies have leveraged large language
models (LLM) to promote the interpretability of
traditional black-box SBO workflows [6]. However, the
information generated by the LLM-enhanced SBO
remains neither exchangeable nor traceable within the
context of sustainable, collaborative design based on
open BIM. To address the gap between LLM-enhanced
SBO and open BIM, this paper proposes an IFC
extension for LLM-enhanced SBO, which explicitly
answers ‘why’ and ‘how’ in addition to ‘what’ to enrich
such incremental IFC updates.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows:
Section 2 reviews the state-of-the-art research on
incremental IFC updates and simulation-based
optimization. Section 3 introduces the proposed IFC
schema extension for incremental update. Section 4
demonstrates the implementation of the extension

through a case study employing large language model
(LLM) agents for building energy efficiency
optimization. Section 5 provides the conclusion.
The primary contributions of this study are twofold.
First, the proposed IFC schema extension emphasizes
that the ‘why’ and ‘how’ dimensions are essential to the
‘what’ of incremental IFC updates. Second, the
feasibility of the proposed extension was validated
through a real-world project.

2

Literature Review

2.1

IFC and schemas for changes

IFC was originally conceived as a monolithic, objectoriented schema based on the EXPRESS data modelling
language [7]. As an object-oriented data schema, the IFC
schema contains several classes, namely “entities”, and
serves as “templates” to describe building information.
The semantic meaning and the implementation of entities
are generalized through inheritance mechanisms. Each
entity declares a set of local attributes, in addition to the
global attributes inherited from its supertype. There are
two types of IFC entities, namely rooted and non-rooted
entities, which contain or do not contain a globally
unique identifier (GUID). In practice, the instantiated
IFC entities are transformed into ASCII text rows in the
text-based IFC-SPF (STEP Physical File) formatted file
[8]. An IFC-SPF file is exchanged in a snapshot-based
exchange paradigm, which means each IFC-SPF file
represents a complete state of a model at a given time,
regardless of actual changes. This exchange paradigm
leads to inefficiencies in data transmission, version
control, and change impact analysis for decision making
in the collaborative, multi-disciplinary environment [9].
To overcome the limitations of holistic IFC file
exchange, recent research and standardization efforts
have shifted toward change-based IFC exchange
approaches. In the literature, three categories of
difference (or delta) computation methods have been
developed to capture changes between two IFC models,
which are (1) GUID-based; (2) flattening-based; and (3)
graph-based approaches.
The GUID-based approach recognizes two IFC
instances as identical if they share the same GUID, which
is widely adopted by commercial BIM platforms such as
Autodesk Revit, Navisworks and Graphisoft ArchiCAD.
However, a significant limitation of this approach is that
GUIDs may not remain consistent across different BIM
authoring tools, rendering GUID-based comparison
unreliable. The flattening-based approach eliminates
randomly referenced identifier numbers (i.e., the “#”-IDs)
in IFC files. The “flattening” process is to replace all the
“#”-IDs with specific instant IDs, such as content-based

2087

hash ID [10][11]. Therefore, flattening-based approaches
enable deterministic textual comparison.
Both the GUID-based and flattening-based methods
are fundamentally text-oriented. In contrast, the graphbased approach leverages graph-based algorithms to
compute semantic differences between two graphrepresented IFC models. There are two main steps
involved in the graph-based approach. First, the graph
representation of IFC models is developed, such as RDF
(resource description framework) graph and directed
property graphs. Then, graph-based algorithms, such as
graph transformation [12], are implemented to capture
the changed part of two IFC models.

2.2

Knowledge engineering applications of
changes in construction

The dynamic theory of knowledge creation developed
by Nonaka and Takeuchi [13], namely the SECI model,
posits that knowledge is created, transferred, and applied
through the creative tension between tacit and explicit
know-how. The SECI model reveals a significant source
of knowledge, that knowledge is generated from
continuously combined, refined, and reconfigured
explicit assets. This definition aligns with the iterative
development processes of construction projects [1].
Accordingly, changes in a construction project, such as
design iterations, site conditions, and stakeholder
feedback, are recognized as a knowledge source which
has great influence on successful project delivery [14].
Knowledge engineering (KE) is the process of
designing, building, and maintaining knowledge-based
systems by identifying relevant domain knowledge,
representing it in formal structures (such as ontologies,
or knowledge graphs), and implementing reasoning
mechanisms that can use the knowledge to make
inferences, decisions, or recommendations [15]. A core
KE approach is the development of domain ontologies
that explicitly define change types, actors, causes, and
impacts. Early work by Beetz et al. [16] transforms the
EXPRESS schema of IFC into an OWL ontology,
namely IfcOWL, and paves the way to change detection
as ontology alignment. The following work of Oraskari
and Törmä [17] introduces a signature algorithm for RDF
diff computation. Furthermore, a domain ontology for
pumped storage hydropower system was developed by
Zhang et al. [18] to support design changes management.
IFC also can be serialized into various data structures,
such as ifcJSON and labelled property graph, to support
algorithmic reasoning for change detection. For example,
A semantic differential transaction (SDT) approach and
the following traceable SDT approach were developed
based on the JSON-format IFC to capture the semantic
changes through structure matching [10][11].

2.3

Simulation-based optimization as a typical
change

Simulation-based optimization (SBO) is widely
applied to building design by iteratively tuning design
parameters towards sustainable objectives [19]. The
generic SBO workflow comprises iterative simulations
that are evaluated through objective functions defined in
optimization algorithms. SBO constitutes a typical
design-change process in which the design parameters
vary across iterations, producing corresponding
modifications in design. For example, energy
performance optimization is a key task in SBO for early
stage building design, aiming to reduce the
environmental impact of future buildings. SBO involves
tuning design parameters such as window-to-wall ratio
and building materials. In each iteration, these
parameters are adjusted to gradually improve energy
performance.
Traditional SBO is challenged by high computational
complexity and low interpretability. A recent study by
Zhou and Xue [19] introduces an Automatic Information
Gain-guided Convergence (AIGGC) method to refine
critical design parameters through interpretable
information gain analysis. Subsequent research
integrated the large language model (LLM) to further
enhance the interpretability and efficiency of complex
SBO [6].
However, the information produced by LLM-Agent
enhanced SBO is neither exchangeable nor traceable
within the context of sustainable, collaborative design
based on open BIM. Existing literature characterizes
BIM-supported SBO as a one-way workflow that
portions of the required parameter data are extracted from
BIM [20], yet the SBO iteration results are not embedded
back into BIM for collaborative use. The limitation arises
for two reasons. First, contemporary SBO practices are
predominantly implemented on visual programming
platforms such as Grasshopper, which do not natively
support IFC. Secondly, the IFC schema lacks the capacity
to represent the information generated by LLM-Agent
enhanced SBO, such as design parameters, constraints,
and
convergence
analysis.
The
proposed
IfcSboExtension uniquely encode the decision rationale,
optimization provenance, and LLM interaction context to
support change-based IFC exchange for traceable and
interpretable collaborative design.

3

IFC extension for LLM agent-enhanced
SBO

To extend IFC’s capability of representing
information of LLM Agent-enhanced SBO, an IFC
extension model named ‘IfcSboExtension’ was proposed.

2088

The extended schema illustrates ‘what’ data should be
involved, ‘why’ the IFC schema should be extended, and
‘how’ to capture the incremental IFC changes within the
LLM Agent-enhanced SBO. A general IFC extension
workflow is illustrated in Figure 1, which constitutes
three steps: (1) Information requirements in LLM Agentenhanced SBO, (2) IfcSboExtension model development,
and (3) verification and implementation for incremental
IFC updates.
In ormati on
re uirements

IFC ased
tension
model

Identifying through
literature review

Sets of SB related
M gent
related information

Comparison with
existing IFC entities

imitations of the existing IFC schema
on M gent enhanced SB

Mapping information
with the IFC data schema

xtended entities and attributes

Implementing extended
entities

n IfcSbo xtension model illustrates the
relationship between extended entities

odel
Synthetic semantic
eri ication
chec s
implementation

model view definition file (.exp

Case study

Figure 1. IFC extension workflow
The first step answers ‘what’ and ‘why’ the IFC
schema should be extended to LLM Agent-enhanced
SBO. Table 1lists the crucial data of two categories: (1)
SBO-related data such as design parameters and
optimization constraints, as well as (2) LLM Agentrelated data such as prompts and structured responses.
A meticulous comparison with the existing entities
within IFC4 ADD3 revealed that both SBO-related and
LLM Agent-related information required extension to
enable seamless data exchange. For example, IfcProcess
is defined in existing IFC schema to represent one
individual activity that has sequence relationships with
other processes. Three subtypes of IfcProcess, namely
IfcTask, IfcEvent, and IfcProcedure do not contain the
semantics such as parameters, constraints, and objective
functions. One compromise approach supported by IFC
schema is identifying specific property sets, such as
Pset_SBO. However, this approach converts SBO
semantics to unstructured strings and leads to semantic
ambiguity and semantic loss.

3.1

The IfcSboExtension model

According to the required data listed in Table 1, three
rooted entities and two non-rooted entities were extended
align with the IFC4 ADD3 schema. As Figure 2 shows,
the
extended
entity
IfcSboWorkflow
and
IfcAiAgentInteraction are two subtypes of the abstract
IfcControl, and IfcOptimizationIteration is a subtype of
the abstract IfcProcess. The reason lies in the semantic
definition of IfcControl and IfcProcess. In IFC4 ADD3,
IfcControl represents all concepts that control or
constrain the utilization of products, processes, or

resource, whereas IfcProcess is defined as one individual
activity or event. According to the definition, IfcControl
and its subtypes are suitable for representing a workflow,
whereas IfcProcess and its subtype focus on one specific
process. In LLM Agent-enhanced SBO, SBO is a
wor flow that contains a set of ‘simulation-optimization’
iterations, and the interaction between stakeholders and
LLM Agent is also recognized as a set of
communications rather than single process. One
optimization iteration aligns with the definition of

IfcProcess which transforms input in output.
IfcObjectiveFunction and IfcSboOptimizationDirectionEnum are two non-rooted entities extended at the
resource layer. These two non-rooted entities cannot exist
independently but can only exist if referenced by the
rooted entity IfcSboWorkflow. Due to page limits, only
the extended IfcSboWorkflow entity and relevant
attributes is present in Figure 3, which illustrates the
EXPRESS representation of IfcSboWorkflow to ensure
both machine and human readability.

Table 1. Crucial data in LLM Agent-enhanced SBO

SBOrelated

LLM
Agentrelated

Crucial Data

Data type (in IFC)

Example

SBO parameters

SET [1: n] of REAL

(0.45,0.45,1.1,2,5.0733)

SBO constraints

STRING

|𝐹𝐴𝑅𝑜𝑟𝑖 − 𝐹𝐴𝑅𝑜𝑝𝑡 | ≤ 0.05 (FAR for floor area ratio)

SBO objectives

STRING

EUI = 112.684 𝑘𝑊ℎ/𝑚2 ∙ 𝑦𝑟

SBO results

STRING or BINARY

JSON or CSV

LLM prompts

STRING

“Please identify which design parameters most
influence the f(S)?”

LLM responses

STRING or BINARY

Response text or Log file

language grammar. The exported use-case model view
definition, designated as IfcSboExtension, incorporates
19 existing IFC entities and 5 newly defined IFC entities.
In the second stage, semantic verification was
performed by compiling the extended IfcSboExtension
model into Java classes using the Apstex IFC Framework.
Additionally, accessor methods of explicit, derived, and
inverse attributes of the extended IFC entities are
developed. Critically, domain rule enforcement methods
were developed, and corresponding unit tests were
designed to verify the IfcSboExtension model based on
the created Java classes.

Figure 2. Extract of the IFC LLM Agent-enhanced
SBO extension with new entities

3.2

Model verification

For verification, the official IFC documentation
toolkit IfcDoc and a test software platform APSTEX
were employed. The verification procedure involves two
steps: syntactic verification and semantic verification. As
summarized in Table 2, syntactic verification ensures
compliance with the formal grammar of the EXPRESS
language. The extended IFC entities were documented
using IfcDoc to verify their compliance with EXPRESS

Figure 3. The extended IfcSboWorkflow entity
and relevant attributes

Table 2. Model verification procedure, criteria, and tools
Verification procedure

Criteria

Tools

Syntactic checks

Formal compliance with the grammar defined in ISO 10303-11(EXPRESS):

IfcDoc

2089

•
Notation conventions
EXPRESS-compliant declaration of
•
ntities (“entity data types” and types (“defined data types” ,
•
numerations (“enumeration data types” ,
•
Subtype and supertype constraints,
•
Explicit, derived, and inverse attributes of entities
Semantic checks

Compilation of the LLM Agent-enhanced SBO schema into Java classes for
semantic checking:
•
Java classes for entity, type, enumeration considering the inheritance
hierarchy
•
accessor methods for explicit, inverse, and derived attributes
•
methods to check domain rules and uniqueness rules

Apstex IFC
Framework

Figure 4. Examples of domain rule checking method and unit test for "HasObjectives" of the IfcSboWorkflow
entity
Figure 4 presents an example of a domain rule
checking method and its associated unit test. For efficient
compilation, so-called “lambda expressions” were used
to implement the domain rule checks. The example
‘whereRuleChec ’ is defined to chec the applicable
objectives of the extended entity IfcSboWorkflow.
Corresponding unit test is shown in Figure 4(b).
“Has bjectives” of the IfcSboWorkflow entity is shown
in Figure 3, which represents a set of
IfcObjectiveFunction instances are assigned to one
IfcSboWorkflow instance. In the unit test, the process of
adding a module group to IfcSboWorkflow results in a
‘False’, which indicates an incorrect state of the IFC test
model.

4

4.1

Case settings

In this case, the optimization objective was to
minimize the energy use intensity (EUI), defined as the
total annual energy consumption divided by the gross
floor area (𝑘𝑊ℎ/𝑚2 ∙ 𝑦𝑟). As shown in Figure 5, the
project features a symmetrical layout with fixed modules
and movable modules. The optimization process focuses
on three types of movable modules which vary in length,
namely 𝑀𝐴 , 𝑀𝐵 , and 𝑀𝐶 . Thus, module layout, window
size and material properties are involved as design
parameters shown in Table 3.

A case study of LLM agent-enhanced
SBO

To illustrate ‘why’ and ‘how’ in addition to ‘what’ of
IFC incremental updates, an energy consumption
optimization scenario is selected as a representative
design-change case study. The design optimization of a
modular integrated construction (MiC) project for a
university student hostel located in Hong Kong is
selected as a case. The developed LLM Agent for
efficient and interpretable SBO is presented in the
published work of Zhou and Xue (2025).

2090

.

m

ass

e
e s

Figure 5. MiC case layout and schematic of
module types (adopted from Zhou & Xue (2025))

4.2
4.2.1

Results
Schemas and sample changes

The implementation of the IfcSboExtension model
using IfcDoc is presented in Figure 6 as an EXPRESS-G

diagram. Black rectangles represent rooted entities,
whereas grey rectangles denote non-rooted entities.
ntity’s attributes – comprising own and inherited
attributes - are separated by an ellipsis and categorized as
either explicit or derived attributes (in black font) or
inverse attributes (in light grey font). Relationships
between the extended entities are connected through
inverse attributes. For example, an IfcOptimizationIteration is referenced by an IfcSboWorkflow through its
inverse attributes ‘ asIte at s’.

Figure 6. EXPRESS-G
IfcSboExtension model

representation

reducing Energy Use Intensity. This transparent exposure
of the 'why' (energy optimization) and 'how' (sensitivity
analysis) enables the owner to grasp the technical
rationale instantly, facilitating an informed approval
decision.
4.2.2

Sensitivity analysis

The text-based IFC-SPF file exhibits acute sensitivity
to: (1) excessive line lengths, (2) special characters such
as unescaped Unicode or JSON brackets, and (3)
exponential file growth. Specifically, the extended
IfcAiAgentInteraction records prompt and structured
responses, which may comprise multi-megabyte strings,
that can significantly decrease data exchange efficiency.
In this study, two mitigation strategies were evaluated:
(1) compressing the structured response using the Gzip
algorithm and encoding the compressed result as Base64
strings; and (2) storing LLM Agent prompts and
structured responses in external files referenced via
IfcURIReference. Gzip and Base64 are open standards
for data compression and encoding, respectively.
Metadata describing the compression and encoding
algorithms are embedded in IfcAiAgentInteraction to
ensure self-descriptiveness. URIs for external files
should conform to standard URI schemes (e.g., HTTP
and HTTPS), and the corresponding MIME type should
be explicitly specified.
The evaluation was performed over 30 iterations of
LLM Agent-enhanced SBO, with results presented in
Table 4. The result indicates that the ‘Gzip + Base64’
strategy increased the IFC file size by a maximum of 2.47%
and an average of 1.91%. The IfcURIReference strategy
effectively eliminates the impact of LLM Agent
responses on IFC file size.

of

The embedded LLM Agent-enhanced SBO semantics
is illustrated in Figure 7. IfcSboWorkflow is assigned to a
module
through
IfcRelAssignsToGroup,
and
IfcAiAgentInteraction is assigned to IfcSboWorkflow
through IfcRelAssignsToControl. To illustrate the change
of parameters during SBO iterations, parameters listed in
Table 3 are selected. For instance, when an iteration
increases the north window area from 4.33 m² to 4.49 m²,
embedded convergence semantics allow the owner to
immediately identify this change as the primary driver for

Table 3. Design parameters for MiC parametric design
Design parameters

Parameter type

Unit

Parameter domain intervals
[𝑀𝐴 , 𝑀𝐵 , 𝑀𝐶 ]

Precision

MiC Module Type

Categorial

-

Window-to-Wall Ratio
(𝑊𝑊𝑅𝑁 , 𝑊𝑊𝑅𝑆 )
Window Height (𝑊𝐻𝑁 , 𝑊𝐻𝑆 )

Continuous

-

0.10 ≤ 𝑊𝑊𝑅𝑁 , 𝑊𝑊𝑅𝑆 ≤ 0.60

Discrete

M

1.0 ≤ 𝑊𝐻𝑁 , 𝑊𝐻𝑆 ≤ 2.5

0.1

Window U-value (𝑈𝑤 )

Continuous

𝑊/(𝑚2 ∙ 𝑘)

0.50 ≤ 𝑈𝑤 ≤ 5.78

0.01

Window Solar Heat Gain
Coefficient (g)
Window Visible
Transmittance (𝜏𝑣 )

Continuous

-

0.100 ≤ 𝑔 ≤ 0.775

0.001

Continuous

-

0.300 ≤ 𝜏𝑣 ≤ 0.881

0.001

4.2.3

User acceptance and comments

The extended IfcSboExtension model was
implemented on a real MiC project for a university
student hostel located in Hong Kong. Stakeholders of the
MiC project gave positive comments. For example, the
owner of the project claimed that “The
M gent

2091

0.01

platform using extended IFC has transformed our design
optimization. The black box SBO is interpretable,
traceable and exchangeable through open BIM. This
enables non-professional stakeholders to understand the
design intentions and make decisions. Technical users
emphasized that “Through the adoption of open BIM, we

can work smoothly between different software and
disciplines with an open standard, which helps us
streamline and automate many manual processes in LLM

BIM version
(input in Revit

Agent and SBO. This has greatly increased our
productivity by eliminating misunderstanding of design
changes that happened in the black box SBO process.

BIM version
( utput in Revit

Figure 7. Embedded LLM Agent-enhanced SBO semantics in IFC
Table 4. File size comparison of two strategies
Strategy
Minimal
Maximum
Average

5

Original
(KB)
1939
1939
1939

Gzip & Base64
(KB)
Δ (%)
1946
+0.36
1987
+2.48
1976
+1.91

External Ref.
(KB)
Δ (%)
1940
+0.05
1941
+0.10
1941
+0.10

Discussion and Conclusion

The snapshot-based exchange paradigm of IFC
introduces inefficiencies in data transmission, version
control, and change impact analysis for making decisions
in the collaborative, multi-disciplinary environment. To
address these limitations, a modular version of IFC 5 is
under development to support incremental IFC updates.
Simulation-based optimization (SBO) for energyefficient building design exemplifies a typical designchange process which remains disconnected from open
BIM-supported collaboration. The gap stems from IFC’s
poor capability of representing information generated by
SBO. To bridge the gap and illustrate the full provenance
of such design changes, including the ‘why’, ‘how’, and
‘what’ in incremental IFC updates, this study proposes a
novel IFC schema extension for the LLM Agentenhanced SBO.
The contributions of this study are twofold:
(1) An IfcSboExtension model was proposed and
verified to enhance the IFC’s capacity to
represent the LLM Agent-enhanced SBO process.

2092

(2) The feasibility and practical value of the
proposed extension were validated through a
MiC case study.
The case study yields two key findings:
(1) All information generated by the LLM Agentenhanced SBO is embedded within the extended
IFC entities, involving three rooted IFC entities:
IfcSboWorkflow, IfcAiAgentInteraction, and
IfcOptimizationIteration; and two non-rooted
IFC
entities:
IfcObjectiveFunction
and
IfcSboOptimizationDirectionEnum.
(2) The changes of design parameters throughout the
LLM Agent-enhanced SBO process can be
captured as incremental IFC updates.
Nevertheless, several limitations remain that require
further investigation:
(1) The extended IfcAiAgentInteraction faces a
trade-off between semantic integrity and storage
efficiency. If LLM Agent prompts and responses
are fully encoded as structured data within
IfcAiAgentInteraction, individual lines in the IFC
file may exceed parser limits, resulting in
increased file size and reduced exchange
efficiency. Conversely, compressing the data
(e.g., via Gzip) or referencing external files
avoids file bloat, but incurs semantic opacity,
requires stakeholders to employ additional tools
to interpret the compressed string or external
files.
(2) Semantic changes of the extended IFC entities

are not supported by the mainstream commercial
BIM platforms (e.g., Revit) or open-source IFC
parsing tools (e.g., IfcOpenshell). This limitation
arises because the proposed IFC extension has
not yet been submitted to buildingSMART for
formal standardization – a necessary step for
broader adoption.

Acknowledgement
The work presented in this paper was supported by
the Hong Kong Research Grants Council (Nos. C708022GF and 17200221).

References
[1] C. Eastman. BIM handbook: A Guide to Building
Information Modeling for Owners, Managers,
Designers, Engineers and Contractors. John Wiley
& Sons, 2011.
[2] M. C. Georgiadou. An overview of benefits and
challenges of building information modelling (BIM)
adoption in UK residential projects. Construction
Innovation, 19(3):298-320, 2019.
[3] Y. Yu, S. Kim, H. Jeon, and B. Koo. A Systematic
Review of the Trends and Advances in IFC Schema
Extensions for BIM Interoperability. Applied
Sciences, 13(23):12560, 2023.
[4] buildingSMART International. IFC 5 Core
Consultation.
Online:
https://www.buildingsmart.org/ifc-5-coreconsultation/, Accessed: 01/25/2026.
[5] G. Mentzas, D. Apostolou, R. Young, and A.
Abecker. Knowledge networking: a holistic
solution for leveraging corporate knowledge.
Journal of Knowledge Management, 5(1):94-107,
2001.
[6] Q. Zhou and F. Xue. L-SCOPE: An LLM-assisted
interactive platform for efficient building design
optimization. Proceedings of the International
Conference on Smart and Sustainable Built
Environment
(SASBE).
96-105.
https://isasbec.abc2.net/index.php/sasbe/article/vie
w/2554/9
[7] International Organization for Standardization. ISO
16739-1:2024 Industry Foundation Classes (IFC)
for data sharing in the construction and facility
management industries Part 1: Data schema. Online:
https://www.iso.org/standard/84123.html,
Accessed: 01/30/2026.
[8] H. Liu, G. Gao, and M. Gu. A parallel IFC
normalization algorithm for incremental storage
and version control. 30th International Workshop
on Intelligent Computing in Engineering (EG-ICE),
pages 511-520, 2023.

2093

[9] K. Dietmair, S. Esser, and B. Harder. Incremental
model updates in BIM: a critical analysis of the
collaboration platform Speckle. Proceedings of the
35th Forum Bauinformatik 2024, 2024.
[10] F. Xue and W. Lu. A semantic differential
transaction approach to minimizing information
redundancy for BIM and blockchain integration.
Automation in Construction, 118:103270, 2020.
[11] L. Kong, R. Zhao, C. Anumba, W. Lu, and F. Xue.
Open BIM exchange on Blockchain 3.0 virtual disk:
A traceable semantic differential transaction
approach. Frontiers of Engineering Management,
12:510-528, 2025.
[12] S. Esser, S. Vilgertshofer, and A. Borrmann. Graphbased version control for asynchronous BIM
collaboration. Advanced Engineering Informatics,
53:101664, 2022.
[13] I. Nonaka, and H. Takeuchi. The Knowledgecreating company: How Japanese companies
create the dynamics of innovation. Oxford
university press, 1995.
[14] H. Wang, and X. Meng. BIM-supported knowledge
management: Potentials and expectations. Journal
of Management in Engineering, 37(4):04021032,
2021.
[15] E. Feigenbau. Knowledge engineering. Annals of
the New York Academy of Sciences, 426(1):91-107,
1984.
[16] J. Beetz, J. Leeuwen, and B. de Vries. IfcOWL: A
case of transforming EXPRESS schemas into
ontologies. Ai Edam, 23(1):89-101, 2009.
[17] J. Oraskari, and S. Törmä. RDF-based signature
algorithms for computing differences of IFC
models. Automation in Construction, 57:213-221,
2015.
[18] S. Zhang, S. Zhang, H. Liu, X. Wang, Z. Zhao, C.
Wang, and L. Yan. Integration of BIM and
ontologies for pumped storage hydropower design
change management in EPC projects. Automation in
Construction, 175:106189, 2025.
[19] Q. Zhou, and F. Xue. Automatic information gainguided convergence for refining building design
parameters:
Enhancing
effectiveness
and
interpretability in simulation-based optimization.
Building and Environment, 275:112788, 2025.
[20] Y. Shen, and Y. Pan. BIM-supported automatic
energy performance analysis for green building
design using explainable machine learning and
multi-objective optimization. Applied Energy,
333:120575, 2023.

