Understanding Illegal Waste Dumping Behaviours with Multi-Source Big Data:
Visualized Evidences from Hong Kong
Wendy M.W. Lee 1*, Weisheng Lu 2, Fan Xue 3
This is the authors’ post-print version of the paper:
Lee, W. M., Lu, W., & Xue, F. (2021). Understanding illegal waste dumping
behaviours with multi-source big data: visualized evidences from Hong
Kong. Proceedings of the 24th International Symposium on Advancement of
Construction Management and Real Estate (CRIOCM2019), Springer, 18191830. doi: 10.1007/978-981-15-8892-1_127.
This file is shared for personal and academic use only, under the license
CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 (Non-Commercial, No Derivatives, and with an
Attributed citation when you use). The final published version of this paper can be
found at: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-8892-1_127. Any uses other than
personal and academic purposes must obtain appropriate permissions from Springer
first.

5

10

15

Abstract: Illegal dumping refers to the unauthorised disposal of waste in public or
private land, which impacts on the surrounding environment. In literature, many studies
on minor offences focused on qualitative methods such as questionnaire surveys, of
which the findings might be confined to social expectation bias, small sample size,
questionnaire design and limited applicability. This study aims at understanding illegal
dumping behaviour records in the big picture of urban big data from multiple sources,
including demography, geography, economy, and household. We georeferenced the
penalty records from January 2014 to June 2019 in Hong Kong and connected them to
other data sources. We found that old urban areas were more prone to fly-tipping of
building debris and half of the districts most stricken with fly-tipping of waste
predominantly comprising renovation waste had a higher proportion of population
residing in owner-occupied properties. The levels of income and education were found
to have no direct impact on the tendency to commit illegal dumping behaviours. The
findings in this paper, therefore, provide directions for the government in formulating
policies to fight against illegal dumping.
Keywords: Illegal dumping; waste management; behaviour analysis; big data; Hong
Kong
1* Wendy M.W. Lee
Corresponding author, Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region, China
E-mail: wendy.lmw@connect.hku.hk

Weisheng Lu
Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region, China

2

Fan Xue
Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region, China

3

1 Introduction
20

25

30

35

40

45

50

55

60

Illegal dumping, also known as fly-tipping, refers to the illegal disposal of waste in
public areas or private land which often involves arbitrary dumping from trucks [1].
Commonly found in urban areas with convenient vehicular access, illegal dumping not
only causes nuisance to residents nearby and poses threat to their health, but can also
undermine the environment in various ways [2], including but not limited to air, soil
and water pollution [3] as well as destruction of wildlife habitat [4].
Apart from causing damage to the surrounding environment, illegal dumping is a
criminal offence which is enforceable by various government departments, with the
vast majority of enforcement actions undertaken by the Environmental Protection
Department (“EPD”) through the issuance of Fixed Penalty Notices (“FPN(s)”) to
offenders.
In order to alleviate the problem of illegal dumping, the EPD had begun to install
Closed-Circuit Televisions (“CCTVs”) in blackspots of offences since 2010 [5].
However, up to early 2016, only 12 CCTVs had been installed [6]. In face of the
aggravating situation, the EPD had significantly increased the number of CCTVs to 50
during the period from March 2016 to March 2018. During the same period, the Food
and Environmental Hygiene Department (“FEHD”) had stepped in to assist the EPD in
fighting against illegal dumping by installing 6 CCTVs [1]. By June 2019, the total
number of CCTVs being installed by EPD and FEHD had escalated to 80 and 118
respectively [7, 8].
Although a myriad of studies had already been conducted on waste management,
academic research on illegal dumping behaviour in Hong Kong is still at its infant stage.
This study which serves to explore the patterns of fly-tipping activities in Hong Kong
is divided into 4 sections. Firstly, a brief overview of the methods of research is
presented in Section 2, followed by preliminary analyses of “big data” on illegal
dumping offences in Hong Kong in Section 3. Thereafter, a discussion on how this
study can be improved is presented in Section 4 and finally a conclusion is drawn in
Section 5.
Big data is commonly known for its “5Vs”, namely, volume, variety, velocity,
veracity and value. Volume means large in amount; variety stands for that big data can
either be structured, unstructured, semi-structured or a combination of at least 2 of them
[9]; velocity means the high speed of data generation; veracity refers to the significance
of the quality of big data on the results of research [10]; value indicates the value of the
hidden patterns recognized from big data analyses [11].
In comparison to the traditional method of questionnaire survey which had been
widely applied to the analyses of less serious offences such as software piracy and
purchase of counterfeit products, the results generated from big data analyses are
capable of giving a more objective and accurate picture of the subject matter being
studied which can in turn minimise the potential issues of poor generalisability and low
reliability associated with self-report data in questionnaire surveys.

2 Research Methods
A big data approach was adopted in this study with the methods of research being
summarised in Figure 1 below.

65

70

75

80

85

90

Figure 1. Structure of Research
As demonstrated in Figure 1, three types of data were obtained for the purpose of
conducting this research. Firstly, the data sets on fly-tipping were first collected from
the government. The anonymous FPN data covering 917 illegal dumping offences
happened between 1 January 2014 and 30 June 2019 (both days inclusive) in all 18
districts in Hong Kong was provided by the EPD. Each FPN record includes the date
of offence, type of waste, detailed description of the relevant waste, the district and the
exact location of offence. Next, the demographic data sets were obtained from the
results of Hong Kong’s “2016 Population By-census” conducted by the government
[12]. Thirdly, the geographic data sets were generated from georeferencing the FPN
data, the process of which will be further elaborated in the next paragraph.
All the data sets on fly-tipping were integrated to the WGS84 (World Geodetic
System 1984) latitude-longitude system. The FPN data was first georeferenced using
the exact locations identified from the Geoinfo Map developed by the government and
Google Maps services. The shapes and locations of districts, buildings and populations
were also converted from local coordinates HKGS80 (Hong Kong 1980 Grid System)
to WGS84.
To compare the trends of illegal dumping behaviours between the initial stage with
nearly no CCTVs and the later stage where more CCTVs had been installed to track
fly-tipping activities, two comparative FPN data sets were filtered - the first set “P1”
covering 24 months from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2015 (Period 1); the other
being “P2” which covers the 24 months from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2019 (Period 2).
The demographic and geographic data was compared against the FPN data being
filtered to explore whether there is any correction between demographic factors (e.g.
income and education levels) and tendency to commit illegal dumping. The preliminary
results are presented in the following section.

3 Preliminary Results
3.1 General Overview

95

Figures 2(a) and (b) below provide an overview of the distributions of FPNs issued
during Periods 1 and 2 respectively. In Period 1, a total of 250 FPNs had been issued.
With 42 FPNs being issued, Shatin ranked the first in terms of the number of illegal
dumping offences which was followed by Sham Shui Po and Yuen Long (each had 34
offences) as well as Kwai Tsing and Yau Tsim Mong (each had 24 offences). As for
Period 2, the total number of FPNs being issued was 422. Illegal dumping activities
remain highly concentrated in Shatin (42 offences), Kwai Tsing (99 offences), Sham
Shui Po (52 offences) and Yau Tsim Mong (33 offences).

100

105

110

Figure 2(a). Data Set “P1” being visualized in a map showing the locations of FPNs
in Hong Kong during Period 1: 250 FPNs with nearly no CCTVs from January
2014 to December 2015.

Figure 2(b). Data Set “P2” being visualized in a map showing the locations of FPNs
in Hong Kong during Period 2: 422 FPNs with nearly 200 CCTVs from July 2017
to June 2019.
Overall, the total number of FPNs had escalated by nearly 70%, from 125 per year
to 211 per year. Kwai Tsing which had experienced increase in the number of flytipping activities by more than four times had replaced Shatin as the district most
seriously affected by illegal dumping. Sham Shui Po had also undergone more than 50%

115

120

increase in the number of offences. However, the number of offences in Yuen Long
had considerably reduced from over 30 to only 8. It is also important to note that certain
districts where the issue of fly-tipping was not that rampant during Period 1 had
aggravated at an unprecedented pace. Examples of such districts include Tai Po (from
10 to 30 offences), Tsuen Wan (from 3 to 35 offences), the Eastern District (from 2 to
41 offences) and the Southern District (from 15 to 36 offences).
It is also worth to mention that Kwai Tsing was also the district with the lowest
median monthly income and second-lowest percentage (15.9%) of population aged 15
or above attaining the education level of bachelor’s degree or above whereas Sham Shui
Po falls within the lower quartile in terms of median monthly income [12].
3.2 Analyses in the Context of Different Types of Waste

125

130

In the data set provided by the EPD, the waste involved in the illegal dumping offences
had been divided into six categories, namely, building debris, household waste, paper
waste, tyres, metallic waste as well as others. Indeed, the vast majority of waste under
the category of “others” were waste generated from renovation works which include
pipes, plastic, packaging materials, canvas, bamboo sticks, broken glass, carton boxes,
containers, furniture, waste metal, rocks, carpets as well as wooden frames, boards and
bars. Only a small proportion of waste being categorised as “others” were commercial
and industrial wastes. A comparison of the distribution of the 6 categories of illegal
dumping offences in Hong Kong between Periods 1 and 2 is presented in Figure 3
below.
(a)

135

(b)

Figure 3. Comparison of the distribution of 6 categories of FPNs (criterion of
classification: waste type) in Hong Kong. (a) Distribution during Period 1; (b)
Distribution during Period 2.
3.2.1 Waste Type – Building Debris

140

145

150

By the end of Period 1, there were 48 offences arising from illegal dumping of building
debris. With 17 offences, Sham Shui Po was the district most seriously threatened by
fly-tipping during that period, followed by Kwai Tsing (10 offences), Shatin and Sai
Kung (each had 5 offences) as well as Yau Tsim Mong (4 offences). Nearly half of the
districts (8 districts) had no offence and almost one-third of the districts (5 districts)
had only one or two offences.
It had been observed that the total number of offences had escalated by nearly 90%
to 90 during Period 2. Kwai Tsing (16 offences) had replaced Sham Shui Po as the
district most stricken with illegal dumping of building debris. With no offence during
Period 1 but the number of offences being escalated to 14 by the end of Period 2, the
Eastern District had become the second most affected district, followed by Sham Shui
Po (12 offences), Tai Po (9 offences) and Shatin (7 offences). It is worth noting that the
number of offences in Tai Po was only 2 during Period 1, which indicates that fly-

155

160

165

170

tipping in that district had worsened. The number of districts with no offences reported
had declined to 4 whereas nearly one-third (5 districts) had 3 or less offences.
In contrast to the waste being categorised as “others” which predominantly
comprised renovation waste, building debris in this study refers to the waste generated
from construction sites. Although fly-tipping of building debris had replaced household
waste as the second most common type of offence during Period 2, it was not as serious
as fly-tipping of waste under the category of “others” which will be further discussed
in Section 3.2.6. One probable explanation is that Hong Kong is a highly developed
city with limited land supply without much room for new construction projects.
Together with the support of the government’s public policies of “Revitalisation of
Industrial Buildings” and “Operation Building Bright”, the type of project that had been
prevailing in recent years was renovation work rather than construction of new
buildings. The findings that Kwai Tsing, the Eastern District and Sham Shui Po were
the three districts most stricken with illegal dumping of building debris are consistent
with the fact that all three districts are under urban decay with an urgent need of
redevelopment. Kwai Tsing was segregated from Tsuen Wan, one of the earliest
developed new towns in Hong Kong, in the mid-1980s. It is also commonly known that
North Point which is an important component part of the Eastern District is one of the
earliest developed areas in Hong Kong whereas Sham Shui Po is an inner city district.
3.2.2 Waste Type – Household Waste

175

180

185

190

195

There was a total of 50 offences relating to illegal dumping of household waste by the
end of Period 1. With 17 offences, Yau Tsim Mong was the district most seriously
affected by fly-tipping, followed by Yuen Long (10 offences), Sai Kung (5 offences)
as well as Shatin and Wong Tai Sin (each had 4 offences).
During Period 2, the total number of offences had increased by nearly 25% to 62.
With 20 offences, Yau Tsim Mong remained as the district most succumb to fly-tipping.
It is also worth noting that the issue of fly-tipping in the Eastern District had aggravated
at an unprecedented pace as reflected by a drastic increase in the number of offences
from 1 in Period 1 to 13 by the end of Period 2, thereby causing the Eastern District to
rank second in terms of illegal dumping of household waste. With the number of
offences being increased to 8, Sham Shui Po had become the third most affected district.
Shatin which remained as the district ranking the fourth in terms of the number of
offences had 6 offences, followed by Tsuen Wan (5 offences). In contrast to Yau Tsim
Mong and Shatin where fly-tipping continued to prevail, such problem had significantly
improved in Yuen Long with only 1 offence being observed and no offence happened
in both Sai Kung and Wong Tai Sin.
Among the 5 districts most affected by fly-tipping of household waste, although 2
of them (i.e. the Eastern District and Shatin) ranked top four in terms of the total number
of domestic households, with only 126,540 households, Yau Tsim Mong which was the
most stricken with illegal dumping fell within the lower-middle quartile in this aspect
[12]. Therefore, no correlation between the number of households and tendency to
commit fly-tipping of household waste existed.
Similar to the case of number of households, there was no correlation between the
median domestic household income and tendency to commit illegal dumping of
household waste. This can be reflected by the fact that except Sham Shui Po which had
the lowest median domestic household income, the levels of median monthly domestic
household income of the other 4 districts most seriously affected by the issue were not

200

205

210

that low. It is worth to note that the Eastern District even ranked fifth in terms of the
level of median monthly domestic household income [12].
No correlation between the median monthly income level and likelihood of
committing fly-tipping had been observed. Except Sham Shui Po which fell within the
lower quartile, the median monthly income level of districts most succumb to illegal
dumping during Period 2 were not that low. The Eastern District, Tsuen Wan and Shatin
even fell within the top one-third in this regard [12].
It is worth to mention that education level was not a factor affecting the tendency
to commit illegal dumping. 3 out of the 5 districts most affected by the problem were
within the first half in this regard, with the Eastern District and Yau Tsim Mong (i.e.
the 2 districts with the largest number of offences) ranking fourth and fifth respectively
in terms of the proportion of population who were degree holders [12].
3.2.3 Waste Type – Paper Waste

215

220

Among the 7 offences of illegal dumping of paper waste during Period 1, both Kwai
Tsing and Sham Shui Po had 2 cases being fined whereas the remaining three offences
happened in Kwun Tong, Wong Tai Sin and Sai Kung respectively. As for Period 2,
there had been an escalating increase in the total number of offences by more than 4
times to 29. During that period, with a significant increase in the number of offences to
12, Sham Shui Po had become the district most seriously affected by fly-tipping of
paper waste, followed by Kwai Tsing (5 offences) and the Eastern District (5 offences).
Offences had also been reported in Tsuen Wan (3 offences), Kowloon City (1 offence),
the Southern District (2 offences) and Tuen Mun (1 offence). In comparison to the
categories of building debris, household waste and “others” which will be elaborated
in Section 3.2.6, fly-tipping of paper waste is a relatively minor issue in Hong Kong.
3.2.4 Waste Type – Metallic Waste

225

230

Only 3 offences of illegal dumping of metallic waste had been fined during Period 1
which happened in Yuen Long, Kwai Tsing and Kowloon City respectively. The total
number of offences had increased to 12 by the end of Period 2, with Kwai Tsing being
the district most severely stricken with the issue (6 offences), followed by Sham Shui
Po and Tsuen Wan (each had 2 offences) as well as Yau Tsim Mong and the Eastern
District (each had 1 offence). Compared with other types of waste, illegal dumping of
metallic waste is the second least serious issue in Hong Kong.
3.2.5 Waste Type - Tyres

235

There was only 1 offence in relation to the dumping of tyres during Period 1 which took
place in Yuen Long. During Period 2, there were altogether 3 offences which happened
in Shatin, Kwai Tsing and Tuen Mun respectively. The illegal dumping of tyres is
among the least serious problem in Hong Kong.
3.2.6 Waste Type - Others

240

During Period 1, with a total of 141 offences, illegal dumping of waste under the
category of “others” had become the most rampant fly-tipping activity. In terms of the
number of offences, Shatin was the district most stricken with fly-tipping (33 offences),

245

250

255

260

265

270

275

280

285

followed by Yuen Long (20 offences), the North District (17 offences), Kowloon City
(15 offences), the Southern District (14 offences) and Sham Shui Po (12 offences).
Contrastingly, the remaining two-thirds of districts only had a few or even no illegal
dumping activities during the same period.
The number of offences had drastically increased by around 60% to 226 during
Period 2. With the number of offences being escalated by more than 6 times from only
10 during Period 1 to 67 by the end of Period 2, Kwai Tsing had become the district
most seriously affected by fly-tipping. With the number of offences being more than
doubled to 32, the Southern District ranked second in terms of the total number of
offences during Period 2, followed by Shatin (28 offences), Tsuen Wan (20 offences),
Tai Po (19 offences) and Sham Shui Po (18 offences). It had also been observed that
the number of offences in the North District had significantly dropped from 17 during
Period 1 to only 1 by the end of Period 2. The number of offences in the Eastern District
and Tuen Mun had jumped from only 1 during Period 1 to 8 and 7 respectively by the
end of Period 2. Similar to the case of Period 1, the remaining majority of districts had
nearly no offences.
It is worth to mention that there is no correlation between education level and
tendency to commit fly-tipping in relation to this category of waste. Among the 6
districts most vulnerable to fly-tipping, except Kwai Tsing which was the district with
the second lowest proportion of population possessing at least a bachelor’s degree, the
percentages of population with degree level or above in the remaining districts were
not that low, with the Southern District ranking the eighth in terms of the percentage of
population with degree level or above and the other 4 districts falling within the upper
two-thirds in this regard [12].
No correction had been observed between the median monthly income level and
the likelihood of committing offences concerning this category of waste. This can be
attributed to the fact that except Kwai Tsing and Sham Shui Po, both of which fell
within the lower quartile in terms of their median monthly income levels, none of the
remaining 4 districts most stricken with fly-tipping ranked below the lower-middle
quartile in this regard. It is worth mentioning that Shatin and Tsuen Wan, i.e. the
districts with the third and fourth largest number of offences, ranked fourth (i.e. fell
within the upper quartile) in terms of the levels of median monthly income [12].
Similarly, there was no correlation between median household monthly income
level and commission of fly-tipping. This can be reflected by the fact that except Kwai
Tsing and Sham Shui Po which had fallen into the lower quartile in terms of the level
of median household monthly income, all the remaining 4 districts most succumb to
illegal dumping fell within the top half in this aspect [12].
Among the 6 districts most severely threatened by illegal dumping, half of them
(i.e. Tai Po, Shatin and Tsuen Wan) ranked the top 6 in terms of the percentage of
households residing in owner-occupied properties [12]. Compared with tenants, it is
commonly understood that owners have a greater incentive to improve their living
environment through renovation. Together with the fact that the vast majority of
offences under this category of “others” were related to the illegal dumping of waste
generated from renovation works, a possible explanation for the high concentration of
fly-tipping in these 3 districts is the greater demand for renovation works arising from
a higher proportion of home-owners in those districts.

4 Discussion
By employing the 6 categories of waste delineated by the data provider without any
modification, this study does have certain limitations. As previously discussed, the

290

295

300

category of “others” mainly included renovation waste with a small proportion being
commercial and industrial waste. Indeed, to improve the comprehensiveness of the
study, the types of waste can be reorganised into 4 categories including renovation
waste, building debris, household waste and “others” which include commercial waste,
industrial waste, paper waste, metallic waste as well as tyres. More detailed statistics
on the number of new construction projects as well as the schemes of “Revitalisation
of Industrial Buildings” and “Operation Building Bright” in each district should be
obtained from the relevant authorities to facilitate in-depth analyses of illegal dumping
of building debris and renovation waste in certain areas. Finally, it is recommended that
information on the distribution of CCTVs should be obtained from the EPD and FEHD
for the purpose of assessing the effectiveness of CCTVs on curbing illegal dumping. It
is anticipated that by undertaking the aforesaid measures to improve the method of
analysing the big data provided by the EPD, more representative results which might
play a role in the formulation of policy recommendations can be generated.

5 Conclusion
305

310

315

320

325

330

335

Admittedly, most previous studies on minor offences with the vast majority of which
concerning software piracy and purchase of counterfeit products had adopted the
conventional approach of questionnaire survey. However, the reliability and
generalisability of self-report data obtained from questionnaire surveys are highly
questionable. Therefore, there has been a shift from such traditional method to the use
of big data analytics in academic research in recent years. It is worth noting that the
application of the big data approach to research on waste management is still at an
infant stage as reflected by the limited literature available. By adopting a big data
approach, this study serves to bridge the research gap not addressed by previous studies
on illegal dumping behaviour in Hong Kong.
This study had generated new knowledge in relation to the pattern of illegal
dumping behaviour in Hong Kong. Firstly, old urban areas were more vulnerable to
fly-tipping of building debris. Secondly, the dumping of paper waste, metallic waste
and tyres were relatively minor issues in Hong Kong. Thirdly, in relation to fly-tipping
of waste under the category of “others” which primarily consisted of renovation waste,
it was observed that 3 districts with a higher percentage of population residing in owneroccupied properties had a larger number of offences. It is worth noting that this type of
offence was also the most rampant during both Periods 1 and 2. Fourthly, it was found
that education level, monthly income level, monthly domestic household income level
as well as the number of households in a district (in the case of household waste) had
no impact on the likelihood of commission of fly-tipping. It is also worth to mention
that there had been an increase in the total number of offences at an unprecedented pace
despite the joint efforts of the EPD and FEHD in installing CCTVs at blackspots.
The findings of this study suggest that future enforcement actions should target at
old urban areas and districts with higher proportion of residents living in owneroccupied properties. Another important implication is that given the lack of impact of
demographic factors such as education and income levels on the tendency to commit
all 6 categories of illegal dumping offences, there is a lack of awareness of the need to
protect the environment by disposing waste at proper waste reception facilities operated
by the government among the public in general. Therefore, education programmes
targeting at all walks of life should be placed at the top of the agenda in alleviating the
issue in the long run. The collective efforts of the government, the general public as
well as the academia will certainly be indispensable throughout such process.

6 Acknowledgement
340

345

350

355

360

365

370

375

380

This research is jointly supported by the Public Policy Research Funding Scheme from
the Policy Innovation and Co-ordination Office of the Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region Government (Project Number: 2018.A8.078.18D) and the
Strategic Public Policy Research (SPPR) Funding Scheme from the Policy Innovation
and Co-Ordination Office of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
Government (Project Number: S2018.A8.010).
References
[1] Environmental Protection Department (EPD). (2018). Enforcement Against Illegal
Land Filling and Fly-tipping of Construction Waste. [pdf] Available at:
<https://bit.ly/2mhBcIL> [Accessed 25 August 2019].
[2] Romeo, V., Brown, S. and Stuver, S. (2003). A GIS analysis of illegal dumping in
the 78249 ZIP Code of Bexar County, in the 23rd Annual Esri International User
Conference, San Diego, California, USA.
[3] Shenkar, M., Chen, Y. and Goldstein, M. (2011). Construction and demolition waste
leachiest-a study of their composition and interactions with the unsaturated sublayer and testing methods of evaluation, in Research Report Prepared for The
Israeli Ministry of Environment Protection No. 4-402, Faculty of Agriculture,
University of Jerusalem.
[4] Webb, B., Marshall, B., Czarnomski, S. and Tilley, N. (2006). Fly-tipping: Causes,
incentives and solutions, University College London.
[5] EPD. (2013). Measures to tackle fly-tipping of construction and demolition waste
and illegal land filling. [pdf]
Available at: <https://bit.ly/2lPIX8B>
[Accessed 25 August 2019].
[6] EPD. (2016). Actions to combat illegal land filling and fly-tipping of construction
and demolition waste. [pdf]
Available at: <https://bit.ly/2kIKKfe>
[Accessed 25 August 2019].
[7] Sing Tao Daily. (2019). 打擊違棄建築廢料 環保署 AI 攝錄機實時「擒兇」.
[Online] Available at: <https://bit.ly/2kjuVM3> [Accessed 25 August 2019].
[8] The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSARG).
(2019). Press Releases - LCQ15: Implementation of municipal solid waste
charging. [Online] Available at: <https://bit.ly/2lNEe7m> [Accessed 20 August
2019]
[9] Chen, X. & Lu, W. (2017). Identifying factors influencing demolition waste
generation in Hong Kong. Journal of Cleaner Production, 141, 799–811.
[10] Big Data and Framework. (2019). The Four V’s of Big Data: The 4 Characteristics
of Big Data. [Online] Available at: < https://bit.ly/2m9tWhR> [Accessed 8 July
2019].
[11] Mayer-Schönberger, V. & Cukier, K. (2013). Big data: a revolution that will
transform how we live, work, and think, Boston: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.
[12] Census and Statistics Department (CSD). (2017). 2016 Population By-census.
Census and Statistics Department of Government of Hong Kong SAR [Online].
Available at: < https://www.bycensus2016.gov.hk> [Accessed 14 March 2019].

