Construction-Oriented Design for Manufacture and Assembly (DfMA)
Guidelines
Tan Tan 1, Weisheng Lu 2*, Gangyi Tan3, Fan Xue4, Ke Chen5, Jinying Xu6, Jing Wang7, and
Shang Gao8
This is the peer-reviewed, post-print version of the paper:
Tan, T., Lu, W., Tan, G., Xue, F., Chen, K., Xu, J., Wang, J. & Gao, S. (2020).
Construction-Oriented Design for Manufacture and Assembly (DfMA) Guidelines.
Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 146(8), 04020085. Doi:
10.1061/(ASCE)CO.1943-7862.0001877
This material is shared under the permission of ASCE, and may be downloaded for
personal use only. Any other use requires prior permission of ASCE. The official version of
this paper can be accessed at http://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)CO.1943-7862.0001877
Abstract
The pursuit of modern product sophistication and production efficiency has bolstered Design
for Manufacture and Assembly (DfMA) around the world. Being both a design philosophy and
a methodology, DfMA has existed in manufacturing for decades. It is coming into vogue in
construction as a potential solution to the industry’s lackluster productivity amid enduring
exhortation of cross-sectoral learning. However, many studies of DfMA in construction are still
simply following the DfMA guidelines developed from manufacturing without adequately
considering important differences between the two sectors of construction and manufacturing.
This study aims to develop a series of construction-oriented DfMA guidelines by adopting a
mixed-method approach. It critiques existing DfMA guidelines in relation to the characteristics
of construction, and further argues that construction-oriented DfMA should consider five
fundamental aspects: contextual basis, technology rationalization, logistics optimization,
component integration, and material-lightening, either individually or collectively. A case study
is then conducted to substantiate and verify the feasibility of these guidelines. This research
sheds new light on the cross-sectoral learning of DfMA from manufacturing to construction.
Ph.D. Student, The Bartlett School of Construction & Project Management, University College London, UK, e-mail:
tan.tan.17@ucl.ac.uk;
2
Professor, Corresponding Author, Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
SAR, e-mail: wilsonlu@hku.hk, Tel.: +852 3917 7981;
3
Professor, Department of Architecture, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, China, tan_gangyi@163.com;
4
Assistant Professor, Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, e-mail:
xuef@hku.hk;
5
Associate Professor, Department of Construction Management, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, China, email: chenkecm@hust.edu.cn;
6
Ph.D. Candidate, Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, e-mail:
jinyingxu@connect.hku.hk;
7
Ph.D. Candidate, Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, e-mail:
jingww@connect.hku.hk;
8
Lecturer, Faculty of Architecture, Building and Planning, The University of Melbourne, Australia, e-mail:
shang.gao@unimelb.edu.au.
1

1

The guidelines can be used as the benchmark for the evaluation of manufacturability and
assemblability in practice. It also opens up a new avenue for further DfMA studies in
construction.
Keywords: Design for manufacture and assembly; Architecture; Construction; Manufacturing;
Assembly; Design guidelines
Introduction
Design for Manufacturing and Assembly (DfMA) is both a design philosophy and methodology
whereby the downstream processes of manufacturing and assembly are considered when
designing products (Boothroyd, 2005). Originating from the manufacturing industry, DfMA
suggests a systematic design process that integrates the production experience into the product
design (Corbett et al., 1991; Kuo et al., 2001; Harik and Sahmrani, 2010). It has two components:
design for manufacture (DfM) and design for assembly (DfA). DfM compares selected
materials and manufacturing processes for the parts, determines the cost impact of those
materials and processes, and finds the most efficient use of the component design (Ashley,
1995), while DfA addresses the means of assembling the parts (Bogue, 2012). Altogether,
DfMA represents a shift from a traditional, sequential approach to a non-linear, reiterative
design methodology. Since its emergence during World War II and flourishing in the
1960s~1970s, numerous DfMA guidelines (e.g., Boothroyd, 2005; Swift and Brown, 2013;
Bogue, 2012; Emmatty and Sarmah, 2012) have been developed to help designers to operate
this design philosophy to improve designs, productivity and profitability (Gatenby and Foo,
1990; Kuo et al., 2001). More recently, a ‘Design for Excellence’ (DfX) approach has
developed where the ‘X’ may denote excellence in any aspect, including testability, compliance,
reliability, manufacturability, inspection, variability, and cost (Maskell, 2013; Huang, 2012).
DfMA is now beginning to come into vogue in the construction industry. Notably, the Royal
Institute of British Architects (RIBA) (2013) published a DfMA overlay to its Plan of Work
2013. The governments of the UK, Singapore, and Hong Kong have all published DfMA guides
or emphasized its importance in construction. Industry giants such as a Laing O’Rourke (2013)
and Balfour Beatty (2018) have even indicated that they consider DfMA to be the future of
construction.
Some terminologies need to be clarified here. According to Dainty et al. (2007), precisely what
constitutes construction is subject to a range of boundary definitions. There are narrow and
broad definitions of construction (Pearce, 2003). The narrow definition of construction focuses
on onsite assembly and the repair of buildings and infrastructure. Contrastingly, the broad
definition of construction could include quarrying of raw materials, manufacture of building
materials, sale of construction products (Dainty et al., 2007), and professional services such as
architectural design, urban planning, landscape architecture, engineering design, surveying,
2

construction-related accountancy, and legal services (Jewell et al., 2014). All the above subsectors can be allocated a four-digit U.S. SIC (Standard Industrial Classification) code, which
is in accordance with the United Nation’s International SIC or the U.K. SIC (Lu et al., 2013).
At the risk of oversimplification, this study treats upstream architecture and engineering
activities as “design”, and downstream onsite activities as “construction”. Onsite construction
is traditionally conducted using cast in-situ; it is a combination of fabrication and assembly
(Ballard and Howell, 1998). In recent years, the global construction industry has seen a number
of initiatives to minimize onsite construction, shifting it to downstream offsite
“manufacture”/fabrication but bringing it back onsite for “assembly” (Duncan in RIBA 2013).
To understand the concept of DfMA in construction, one must position it in the heterogeneous
context of construction and be cognizant of the relationships between architecture, engineering,
construction, manufacturing, and assembly therein.
One can also understand the DfMA trend against the background of global construction, which
is characterized by ever-heightened product sophistication, sluggish productivity growth,
increasing influence of cross-sectoral learning, and emerging technological advancements in
virtual design and construction. Production inefficiency in construction has been criticized in a
succession of influential UK-based industry reports, including ‘Constructing the Team’
(Latham, 1994), ‘Rethinking Construction’ (Egan, 1998), ‘Never Waste a Good Crisis’
(Wolstenholme et al., 2009), and more recently in The Economist (2017) comparing
construction productivity with its manufacturing and agriculture counterparts. Construction has
been accused of being ‘adversarial’, ‘ineffective’, ‘fragmented’, and ‘incapable of delivering’,
with an appalling backwardness that should be improved, e.g., through industrial structure or
organizational culture. Increasingly, it is exhorted that construction should look to and learn
from highly productive industries such as advanced manufacturing (Camacho et al., 2018).
Lean construction (Koskela, 1992) is typically advocated as a result, as is DfMA.
The exploration of production innovation, in particular offsite construction, has provided an
unprecedented opportunity for DfMA. It is the similarities between offsite
construction/prefabrication and manufacturing that have pushed DfMA to the fore of the
industry’s cross-sectoral learning and innovation agenda. In addition, emerging technological
advancements, such as Building Information Modelling (BIM), 3D printing, the Internet of
Things (IoTs), and robotics provide the construction industry, DfMA in particular, new entry
points for manufacturing knowledge and efficiency improvement.
However, current DfMA practices in construction still, by and large, follow DfMA guidelines
developed in a manufacturing context without sufficiently considering the differences between
construction and manufacturing. For example, DfMA procedures in Boothroyd (2005) consider
DfA and DfM but not the downstream logistics and supply chain (LSC), which plays a critical
role in offsite prefabrication construction. Some construction DfMA guidelines proposed, e.g.,
3

Gbadamosi et al., (2019), Kim et al., (2016), and Banks et al. (2018), originate more or less
from manufacturing-oriented guidelines. While inspiring, some of these guidelines are not
necessarily a good fit with construction’s characteristics, leading to an inability to improve
manufacturing and assembly. Some guidelines are proposed in a fragmented fashion without
necessarily forming an organic whole, leading to a lack of comprehensiveness, or “easy to use”
throughout the building process. The RIBA, in recognizing the potential of DfMA in
construction, added an overlay of DfMA to its time-honored Plan of Work. Following RIBA’s
vision (2013, p. 24), much “soft-landing” work remains to implement DfMA in construction.
Partly responding to this call for “soft-landing” work, this paper aims to facilitate the
implementation of DfMA in construction by proposing a series of construction-oriented DfMA
guidelines. It has three objectives: (1) to identify the differences between manufacturing and
construction; (2) to propose a series of construction-oriented DfMA guidelines; and (3) to
evaluate the proposed DfMA guidelines by using empirical evidence. These objectives are
achieved using a mixed-method approach including literature review, comparative analysis, and
case study. The remainder of this paper is organized into six sections. Section 2 presents basic
knowledge such as the origin, concept, and general applications of DfMA. Section 3 describes
the research methods adopted. Section 4 introduces the development of DfMA guidelines for
construction projects by adapting existing DfMA guidelines to fit the characteristics of the
design process and the final product in construction. In Section 5, the developed DfMA
guidelines are evaluated through empirical evidence from research and practice. The last two
sections present discussions and a conclusion, respectively.
An overview of Design for Manufacture and Assembly
DfMA originated in the weapon production processes developed by Ford and Chrysler during
World War II. Formal approaches to DfM and DfA emerged in the late 1960s and early 1970s
when the UK published The Management of Design for Economic Production standard in 1975.
The academic exploration of DfMA can be traced back to the 1970s when Boothroyd and
Dewhurst conducted research and practice in this area. Boothroyd (1994) described the
shortcomings of an “over the wall” design approach and suggests the application of DfMA
methodology to making production knowledge available to designers. Hamidi and Farahmand
(2008) suggested that DfMA implementation needs a feedback loop between design and
manufacturing; for example, with a design being checked by the manufacturer to identify
potential problems or waste in the downstream processes of manufacturing and assembly.
Since its adoption in manufacturing, DfMA has helped many companies increase their profits
through optimized design (Gatenby and Foo, 1990; Kuo et al., 2001). Several guidelines have
been consolidated to help designers reduce difficulties in manufacturing and assembling a
product. Examples include minimizing the number of parts (Kuo et al., 2001; Eastman, 2012;
Bogue, 2012) and searching for the most efficient use of modular design (Ashley, 1995). Some
4

analytical tools have also been developed for designers to evaluate their proposed design from
the perspectives of manufacturing and assembly difficulties. Although these
guidelines/principles have been developed from various reference points, they share substantial
similarities, with minimization, standardization, and modular design emerging as key DfMA
principles.
The importance of considering the production process in the design stage is also recognized by
the construction industry. Architectural and engineering design have never been a pure art; there
is a long-standing architectural philosophy of “form follows function” (Goulding et al., 2015)
whereby form, functions, quantity, and buildability should be considered in design. Design
optimization has been advocated. But DfMA is different in that it consciously highlights the
downstream processes of manufacturing and assembly. With its success in the manufacturing,
civil aviation, auto, and other industries, researchers have suggested the implementation of
DfMA in construction to harvest benefits including time reduction, cost minimization, and
achieving customer satisfaction. Although DfMA has only recently been introduced to
construction, some DfMA-like thinking precedes it. For example, Fox et al. (2001) proposed a
strategy for DfM application to buildings, and Crowther (1999) proposed design for
disassembly as the final step of DfA in construction for life cycle assemblability. More recently,
Yuan et al. (2018) integrated BIM and DfMA to develop the concept and process of DfMAoriented parametric design, and Arashpour et al. (2018) explained DfMA guidelines in modular
prefabrication of complex façade systems. Chen and Lu (2018) also highlighted the application
of DfMA in the façade system through a case study. In addition to this research work, industrial
reports such as Laing O’Rourke (2013), Balfour Beatty (2018), and RIBA’s DfMA overlay
(2013) have helped popularize DfMA in construction.
Despite support from both academia and industry, DfMA has yet to achieve fervent
implementation in construction because of problems related to new design system and
standardization, fragmentation, multi-party coordination, and lack of proper design guidelines
(Jin et al., 2018; Gao et al., 2019). Few studies, if any, have discussed the differences of DfMA's
guidelines between manufacturing and construction. Indiscriminate introduction of guidelines
from a manufacturing to construction may not increase productivity, and will definitely pose
additional uncertainties and risks (Paez et al. 2005).
Research methods
This study adopts a four-step research design, as shown in Figure 1. The first step is to review
fundamental guidelines of DfMA widely adopted in the manufacturing industry. These
guidelines are retrieved from authoritative publications, including academic papers and reports.
Some of these guidelines can be applied to the design of building components for efficient
construction, but others cannot. Therefore, the second step is to generate a tentative set of DfMA
guidelines applicable to construction. This process is delivered based on an understanding of
5

the similarities and differences between construction and manufacturing. The third step is to
complement the tentative DfMA guidelines by analyzing construction projects that have
pioneered DfMA-oriented design. The set of DfMA guidelines will be further validated in the
fourth and final step of this study.

Fig. 1. Research design and methods
Three principles underpin the transplantation of DfMA guidelines from manufacturing to
construction. The first is to reduce inappropriate guidelines and merge or amend vague
guidelines. Some guidelines that cannot meet the production requirements of construction due
to its unique characteristics will be deleted. Guidelines that are too vague or not amenable to
accurate and efficient implementation will be re-organized or re-presented. The second
principle is to increase applicable guidelines in line with the unique characteristics of
construction. Manufacturing-oriented DfMA guidelines may not fully describe the needs of
manufacturability and assemblability in construction projects. Properly enhanced, these DfMA
guidelines, however, can provide decision-makers with adequate design options. The third
principle is to establish DfMA guidelines using a systems theory lens. Many DfMA guidelines
developed from the manufacturing industry are, in fact, appropriate only from a micro
perspective. Using these guidelines discretely without systematic consideration might not
increase manufacturability and assemblability in real-life construction projects.
Towards construction-oriented DfMA guidelines
DfMA guidelines for manufacturing
DfMA signifies a shift in traditional, sequential design thinking to a non-linear, reiterative
methodology by actively considering the downstream processes in the upfront design stage.
Researchers such as Stoll (1986), Swift and Brown (2013), Bogue (2012), and Emmatty and
Sarmah (2012) provided some key guidelines for the application of DfMA in manufacturing,
as shown in Table 1. Their focal points are mainly related to design, fabrication, assembly, and
materials. From Table 1, it is clear that simplification and the assembly process are spotlighted.
6

The guidelines are descriptive and qualitative, with no quantitative, implementable, and
numerical details that are easy to comprehend and execute. While some of the principle aspects
are relevant to construction, the guidelines when proposed did not necessarily consider the
heterogeneity of construction.
Table 1. A non-exhaustive list of DfMA guidelines
Guidelines
1

Aim for mistake-proof design

Persp
ectives
SD

2

Design for ease of fabrication

F; SP

3

Design for simple part
orientation and handling
Design with a predetermined
assembly technique in mind
Design multifunctional and
multi-use parts
Consider modular designs

F; SP

Consider
design
for
mechanized or automated
assembly
Use standard and oﬀ-the-shelf
components
Use as similar materials as
possible
Use
as
environmentally
friendly materials as possible
Minimize the part count

SP; A

Minimize and standardise
connector types and quantity
Minimize the use of fragile
parts
Do not over-specify tolerances
or surface finish

SP;
SD
SP

4
5
6
7
8
9
1
0
1
1
1
2
1
3
1
4

F
F; SP;
SD
SP; M

SP; M;
SD
SP; M

SP

F; SP

Beneﬁts
Avoids unnecessary re-work, improve quality,
reduce time and costs
Reduces time and costs by eliminating complex
fixtures and tooling
Reduces time and costs by avoiding non-value
adding manual effort
Reduces time and costs when assembling
Reduces time with fewer manufacture processes
and simplified jointing
Reduces time and costs due to simpliﬁed design and
assembly
Improves assembly eﬃciency, quality, and security
Reduces purchasing lead time and costs

Referen
ce
①; ②;
③; ④
①; ②;
④
①; ②;
④
①; ④
②

①; ②;
③; ④
①; ③;
④

Reduces time with fewer manufacture processes
and simplified jointing
Reduces harm to the environment and residents

①; ②;
③; ④
①; ④

Reduces time and costs with simplified design,
manufacture, and assembly
Reduces time and costs with simplified design,
manufacture, assembly, repair and maintenance
Reduces costs due to fewer part failures, and easier
handling and assembly
Reduces time and costs with easier manufacture

①; ②;
③; ④
①; ②;
③; ④
①; ④

Note: A=Automation; F=Flexibility; M=Modularity; SD=Standardization; SP=Simplification.
①=Bogue, 2012; ②=Stoll, 1986; ③=Emmatty and Sarmah, 2012; ④=Swift and Brown, 2013

③

①; ④

Similarities and differences between manufacturing and construction
Transplanting DfMA guidelines from manufacturing to construction first requires
understanding the connections and distinctions between the two industries. Manufacturing can
be defined as “the process of transforming materials and information into goods for the
satisfaction of human needs” (Chryssolouris, 2013). It is often linked to the concept of “mass
production”, evolving to successfully adopt machinery and information technologies to achieve
cost-effective production (Lanigan, 1992; Crowley, 1998). Construction can also be considered
as production process with products that are location-based and involve heavier onsite assembly,
e.g., buildings, bridges, roadways, and other infrastructure (Jewell et al., 2014). It is a projectbased activity employing huge human, material, and machine resources and involving heavy
investment (Chitkara, 1998).
7

Manufacturing and construction share many managerial practices, however. For example, they
both engage multiple stakeholders to participate in the design, procurement, production, and
logistics and supply chain management (LSCM) process (Winch, 2003). The process of
producing physical products can be intensive, and thus requires skilled labor and a high level
of technology (Sanvido et al., 1990). In recent years, as construction shifts towards
prefabrication and other manufacturing techniques, the distinctions between these two
industries have blurred. Some scholars advocate construction as a manufacturing process,
intending to encourage adoption of manufacturing processes and guidelines (e.g., Crowley,
1998; Gann, 1996). The underpinning idea is to make the construction process more
controllable to alleviate the long-lasting problems of the industry such as low efficiency, poor
quality control, and labor shortage.
Still, construction differs from manufacturing in its end products and production process.
Construction outputs are generally more sophisticated (Sanvido et al., 1990). Unlike
manufacturing goods produced at factories and transported to end users, construction outputs
are largely built in place (Paez et al., 2005). The unique features of construction outputs lead to
the more dynamic, highly localized, and complex nature of construction process. For example,
construction involves an onsite production cycle that could last for years and many
contingencies and risks can occur during this period (Koskela, 1992; Paez et al., 2005). It is
challenging for proactive planning, visual control, and orderly management (Aapaoja and
Haapasalo, 2014). Compared to manufacturing with its relatively standardized workflow,
construction is a highly localized activity that involves using locally available resources and
taking into account local geographic, economic, social and climatic constraints (Akanni, et al.,
2015). The site-specific, one-of-a-kind nature of construction projects makes it difficult to apply
a standardized routine that has been proved efficient by other projects (Koskela, 1992; Jewell
et al., 2014; Aapaoja and Haapasalo, 2014).
Even though offsite construction is quite similar to manufacturing and hence presents an
unprecedented opportunity for DfMA, they are not the same. Some major components can be
manufactured, e.g., in an offsite precast yard, but a considerable portion of the construction and
assembly work are still conducted onsite. Full modular integrated construction has never been
the ultimate choice (Lu et al., 2018b). Construction LSCM of raw materials and precast
components play a key role in the success or failure of prefabrication construction (Zhong et
al., 2017). The final products are still location-based, confined by site conditions and bespoke
requirements from diverse clients. As shown in Table 2, the differences mentioned above are
summarized into six perspectives, including place, power, mode, form, period, and process. All
these features together necessitate a closer look at “general” manufacturing DfMA guidelines
to propose a set of guidelines that are more construction-oriented.

8

Table 2. Difference between manufacture industry and construction industry
Perspectives Manufacture industry Construction industry
Place
Lowly localized activity Highly localized activity
Power
Factory mechanization Labor-intensive onsite
Mode
Mass production
Customized design
Form
Product-based activity
Project-based activity
Period
Short cycle
Long cycle
Process
Standardized workflow Non-standardized workflow
Tentative DfMA guidelines for construction
Several studies have tried to apply DfMA in construction, as shown in Table 3. Most of these
guidelines directly adopted the manufacturing-oriented DfMA (see Table 1) or made some
adaption, mainly by changing their descriptions . Gbadamosi et al. (2019) generalized the fourcategory of guidelines by considering DfMA and lean construction and developed a DfMAbased optimizer for improving constructability. Kim et al. (2016) employed DfMA to overcome
the limitations of current bridge construction practice and to realize the standardization of
bridge construction in the UK. Chen and Lu (2018) reported DfMA guidelines for curtain wall
system specifically. Banks et al. (2018) introduced DfMA to support high-rise residential
construction. Safaa et al. (2019) proposed DfMA-based evaluation criteria for the prefabricated
bridge.
However, these studies do not adequately discuss the DfMA guidelines applied. Meanwhile,
some of the stated guidelines are inconsistent with current architectural and engineering design
practices. Hence, they cannot represent the core ideas of DfMA, such as improving
manufacturability and assemblability without reducing flexibility and functionality. Many
DfMA guidelines only consider reducing cost and number of components, not maintaining and
balancing other building attributes, and therefore cannot be used directly. More seriously, these
guidelines may make sense when being implemented individually, but can be easily
contradictory to each other if being applied together. Therefore, more systematic and iterated
guidelines need to be developed.
Considering context specificity and technical limitations, this study treats DfMA
implementation as a multi-criteria decision-making (MCDM) issue in the evaluation and
optimization of manufacturability and assemblability. Through systematical consideration,
these guidelines can be assigned importance weights during project process to achieve overall
optimization. Therefore, this research derive the five construction-oriented DfMA guidelines
shown in Table 4. The generalization of these guidelines is grounded based on the combined
consideration between existing DfMA guidelines and construction characteristics. Most of the
guidelines mentioned in Table 3 are summarized into component-integrated design which is
more closed to manufacture-oriented DfMA. Part of the guidelines are summarized into
9

material-lightened design, logistics-optimized design, and technology-rationalized design. In
addition, the inherent differences between the construction and manufacturing industries lead
to a new DfMA guideline – context-based design – for construction because the construction is
generally a highly localized activity (Akanni et al., 2015). Detailed descriptions of these five
guidelines are shown as follows.
Table 3. Some construction-related DfMA guidelines reported in the literature
1

Refere
nce
Gbada
mosi et
al.,
(2019)

Guidelines

Sources

(1) ease of assembling parts

Minimize and standardise connector types and
quantity (①; ②; ③; ④); Use standard and oﬀthe-shelf components (①; ②; ③; ④)
Design for simple part orientation and handling
(①; ②; ④); Minimize the part count (①; ②;
③; ④)
Design with a predetermined assembly technique
in mind (①; ④)
Use as environmentally friendly materials as
possible (③)
Design for ease of fabrication (①; ②; ④);
Design for simple part orientation and handling
(①; ②; ④)
Minimize the part count (①; ②; ③; ④)
Minimize and standardise connector types and
quantity (①; ②; ③; ④); Use as similar
materials as possible (①; ④)
Design for simple part orientation and handling
(①; ②; ④)
Minimize the part count (①; ②; ③; ④)

(2) ease of handling parts
(3) speed of assembling the whole system
(4) waste produced during operation

2

Kim et
al.,
(2016)

(1) simplification in design
(2) reduced number of parts
(3) standardization of commonly used parts
and materials

3

4

Chen
and Lu
(2018)

Banks
et al.
(2018)

(4) ease of orientation, handling and
assembly of parts
(1) reducing the part count of curtain wall
system
(2) reducing the numbers of unique
fasteners necessary to assemble the curtain
wall system on the construction site
(3) using cost-effective materials
(4) making sure that the size and weight of
components is easy to handle
(5) reducing waste of materials
(1) use of prefabricated elements and
modules
(2) reducing the number of unique parts
(3) removing labor-intensive construction
activities from site
(4) placing the prefabrication activities in a
controlled factory environment
(5) using a highly automated approach
(6) reducing waste in the process overall
(7) improving efficiency in site logistics
and a reduction in overall vehicle
movements transporting materials to and
from site

Minimize and standardise connector types and
quantity (①; ②; ③; ④)

Use as similar materials as possible (①; ④)
Design for simple part orientation and handling
(①; ②; ④)
Use as environmentally friendly materials as
possible (③)
Use standard and oﬀ-the-shelf components (①;
②; ③; ④)
Minimize and standardise connector types and
quantity (①; ②; ③; ④); Minimize the part
count (①; ②; ③; ④)
Consider design for mechanized or automated
assembly (①; ③; ④)
Consider design for mechanized or automated
assembly (①; ③; ④)
Consider design for mechanized or automated
assembly (①; ③; ④)
Use as environmentally friendly materials as
possible (③)
N/A

10

5

Safaa
et al.,
(2018)

(8) lowering the number of parts
(9) reducing the proportion of work carried
out in the relatively harsh site environment
(1) simplicity of design
(2) number of components
(3) standardization on elements or material
(4) ease of handling

Minimize the part count (①; ②; ③; ④)
Consider design for mechanized or automated
assembly (①; ③; ④)
Design for ease of fabrication (①; ②; ④);
Design for simple part orientation and handling
(①; ②; ④)
Minimize the part count (①; ②; ③; ④)
Minimize and standardise connector types and
quantity (①; ②; ③; ④); Use as similar
materials as possible (①; ④)
Design for simple part orientation and handling
(①; ②; ④)

Table 4. Construction-oriented DfMA guidelines proposed in this study
NO.

Guidelines

Perspectives

Generation sources
Existing
guidelines

1

Context-based design

2

Technology-rationalized design

3

Logistics-optimized design

Physical site

Construction
characteristics
X

Cultural locality

X

Onsite craftsmanship

X

Off-site prefabrication

4
5

Component-integrated design
Material-lightened design

X

Logistics inside the site

X

Logistics outside the factory

X

Finished surface

X

Connection joints

X

Material properties

X

Structural system

X

Context-based design
For DfMA implementation in construction, context-based design is conducted from both
physical site and cultural locality perspectives. Building process performance is highly
influenced by context (McHarg, 1992; Kalay, 1999; Gifford, 2007), and manufacturability and
assemblability are two important indicators of this performance. The physical, cultural, social,
and other environments in which a building is embedded not only have an impact on the form
of the building, but also on the building process. These factors provide references for the
building design and process. As shown in Figure 2, different contexts cause different
construction results. Seda, a traditional Chinese minority area, relies on mountains to build
layers of wooden houses. High-density cities like Hong Kong utilize concrete for high-rise
buildings. Old European towns, like Siena, build using bricks and stones. Based on the specific
context, building practitioners can use localized craftsmanship, technology, and materials to
tackle the difficulties in manufacturing and assembly process without compromising building
quality and historical continuity. Thus, the context-based design method adapts the building
process to the context to enhance manufacturability and assemblability.

11

(a) Wood (Seda, Sichuan, (b) Concrete (Hong Kong, (b) Stone (Siena, Italy)
China)
China)
Fig. 2. Context-based buildings (source: photo by authors)
Technology-rationalized design
Increase of manufacturability and assemblability does not have an absolute positive correlation
with the depth of adoption of new technologies. Appropriate technology is seen as a more
sensible approach than “rocket technology” in the construction industry (Ofori, 1994;
Mitropoulos and Tatum, 1999; Lu, 2017). For example, Lu et al. (2018b) recommended the
implementation of an optimal rather than a high degree of prefabrication. Tan et al. (2019)
highlighted the technology implementation barriers in different contexts and advocated
appropriate technology implementation strategies. DfMA is considered an ideal way for
prefabricated building production in many studies. Since it is not a case of “the higher the
degree of prefabrication, the better”, the corresponding DfMA strategies must also change with
the degree of prefabrication for better manufacturability and assemblability.
Logistics-optimized design
Optimizing construction logistics has a positive impact on the building process (Sobotka et al.,
2005; Vidalakis et al., 2011; Lu et al., 2011). Compared with manufacturing production,
building process, which involves off-site factories and onsite assembly, is complicated in terms
of LSCM. Therefore, unlike Boothroyd (2005), architectural DfMA should not only consider
the building product itself, but also LSCM. Banks et al. (2018) mentioned that DfMA needs to
improve efficiency in site logistics and reduction in overall vehicle movements transporting
materials to and from the site. It is necessary to consider the effectiveness of component
transport and onsite placement on site when carrying out detailed design. Both logistics inside
the site and outside the factory need to be considered interconnectedly.
Component-integrated design
The selection and combination of building components at the design stage is important to a
construction project (Flager et al., 2009) and requires knowledge of engineering, materials, and
building equipment. Component-integrated design based on component characteristics and
construction logic can improve manufacturability and assemblability. For example, Zhang et al.
12

(2018) proposed a high-speed, integrated component design method for modular houses
whereby large components are assembled at the site factory, and aloft work and complex
assembly operations are moved to the construction ground. Halfawy and Froese (2007)
proposed a component-based framework for project system integration. These measures of
integration improve assembly efficiency and reduce dangerous aloft work, which greatly
reduces onsite safety hazards while improving the efficiency of onsite construction equipment
and tools.
Material-lightened design
Lightweight buildings first emerged to alleviate the problems of manufacturing overcapacity
and lack of social housing after World War II. Therefore, from birth, the lightweight building
is a product highly related to industrialized production. The material-lightened design
represents the material and structural efficiency when creating the volume of space. It is also
the impact of the overall construction on the environment as little as possible. Both light timber
(Scotta et al., 2015) and light steel (Jackson, 2016) have been appraised for rapidity of
realization, affordability, and flexibility in design and construction. Chen and Lu (2018) also
highlighted the importance of easy-to-handle size and weight of components in DfMA.
Reduction in overall building weight helps to improve efficiency in activities related to
manufacturing and assembly. Production, transportation, and onsite manual work become more
convenient, as does subsequent demolition and relocation of the building. Under the materiallightened design guideline, architectural design must consider not only the properties of the
material but also the weight reduction and achievement of the ideal stiffness-to-weight ratios.
It is also necessary to consider the structural system design of the building to achieve overall
weight optimization at the system level.
A case study of a construction project pioneering DfMA-oriented design
The selected case is a housing project located in Yunnan Province, China. It adopted a
prefabricated light steel-frame. The project was carried out by a real estate company under the
impetus of the Chinese government’s policy of taking targeted measures to help people lift
themselves out of poverty. The case is analysed in view of the five construction-oriented DfMA
guidelines as proposed by this study.
With regards to context-based design principle, the project adapted to the undulating terrain
through the underlying steel structural pillars while adopting ethnic minority Dai-style
architecture as seen in Figure 3. Figure 4 shows that topological deformation combinations,
planned courtyards, and entrance locations were organized into different residential space
modes according to different context conditions. Using context-based design principle, design
choices were more culturally and geographically adaptable and able to reflect local
characteristics.

13

(a) Establish the foundation

(b) Build a floor panel

(c) Light steel framing construction
(d) Final completed construction
Fig. 3. Building process (source: photo by authors)

Fig. 4. Design under the site context
As for material-lightened design principle, this project is lightweight, of high strength and small
footprint, adopting a light steel-frame structure with high-efficiency lightweight thin-walled
profiles. The light steel framing system saves construction time and cost to a large extent. This
design highly responded to the integration of material properties and building structure system.
The structure is adaptable, the materials easy to recycle, and the project with low waste. Scotta
et al., (2015), Jackson (2016) and Chen and Lu (2018) all highlighted the importance of weight
14

in rapidity of realization. The lightweight steel-framed structure is likely to be close to zero
energy consumption in terms of energy and environmental performance of the building,
reducing waste during manufacturing and assembly (Roque and Santos, 2017; Santos and Silva,
2017). Due to factors such as environmental awareness and wood shortages, countries including
the U.S., Japan, the U.K, and Australia are actively promoting the application and development
of low- and medium-rise light steel structure houses.
In this project, the component-integrated design principle was consciously considered; the
production of components was automated, continuous, and highly precise. Product
specifications, especially connection joints and finished surface, were serialized, finalized, and
matched. It is easy to enlarge the column spacing and provide more separation space, which
can reduce the height and increase the building area (the saleable area can reach up to 92%).
Based on the component-integrated design, the advantages of adding floors, building renovation,
and building reinforcement are easily perceivable, as shown in Figure 5. Villagers decided the
size of the residential area to be built according to the actual situation of their own homes, and
they were able to reserve the land for later development. As shown in Figure 6, according to
their actual needs, the villagers could freely combine the components of the façade in the
available material library to form different effects and styles. These design strategies provided
flexibility and expandability for assembly based on component-integrated design.

Fig. 5. Assembly expandability

15

Fig. 6. Facade material
This project also considered the logistics-optimized design principle in view of the difficulties
of logistics in the rural areas of Yunnan, where much of the terrain features tall mountains
without proper roads. The lightweight material reduced transport pressures and the design of
the components also took into account the size requirements of the transport. After the
prefabricated modules had been delivered to the site, the construction activities were carried
out immediately by the villagers, who learned and helped each other to complete the assembly
process of the houses. All dry works were carried out with little impact from the weather. A
building of about 300m2 required only five workers and 30 working days to construct.
For the technology-rationalized design principle, this project used low-tech but suitable
technology to facilitate rapid construction by ordinary farmer workers and combined onsite
craftsmanship and off-site prefabrication. For example, as shown in Figure 7, a new type of
mortar-free and self-locking block was used. It can be recycled and used economically and
environmentally. Unlike the traditional brick-concrete structure, the masonry can be bonded
without relying on cement mortar. This saved labor costs and speeded up the building process.
In addition, after the blocks were connected to the wall, the mechanical strength of the wall was
increased, which can effectively mitigate the damage caused by earthquakes, typhoons,
humidity, and floods.

16

Fig. 7. Brick wall construction method
Discussion
Traditional DfMA guidelines were developed from a manufacturing perspective. Although they
make sense in some situations, architects complain that the guidelines ignore other critical
elements such as site conditions, cultural context, flexibility of building forms, and LSCM.
Some architects believe that architecture should not be just an industrial product, but rather an
organic product of the urban environment. Based on these conflicting opinions, the use of
context-based design is proposed as a fundamental DfMA guideline. When implementing it,
designers should pay attention to both physical and cultural issues related to the site, and try to
make use of these characteristics for manufacturing and assembly.
In addition to interdisciplinary integration from manufacturing to construction, the adoption of
technology is seen as an important factor affecting manufacturing and assembly. Technology
can transform transportation methods, module components, and material processing. Thus, the
second guideline is regarded as an enabler for DfMA implementation. The specific context
determines the background, obstacles, results, and effects of technology implementation. In
addition, various places, especially remote areas, may retain their own unique construction
craftsmanship. Some forms of buildings, for example, have high requirements for onsite
17

craftsmanship. Therefore, appropriate degree of prefabrication should be set for achieving
optimal manufacturability and assemblability.
Optimization of the logistics is often overlooked at the design stage because architects often
consider a building as a static product, rarely treating it as a building process. For architects to
consider logistics, they need knowledge of project management and LSCM. This requires the
architect to be more than just a designer, but also a coordinator of different types of work and
a project manager to guide the building process. When it is impossible for an architect to possess
all the knowledge of logistics, it is recommended to get construction or facility managers
involved early in the design phase to perform, e.g. a buildability check, or pre-occupancy
evaluation.
Component-integrated design and material-lightened design are also set as the constructionoriented guidelines. The prefabrication degree of each project may be different, resulting in
different proportions of prefabricated components vs. cast in-situ. These two guidelines
emphasize the integrated design of components and the lightweight design of materials. For the
former, this study proposes to guide the production of components based on the finished surface
of the building and to focus on the design of connection joints. The design from the finished
surface to the detail can help the manufactured product to be closer to the final assembly
requirements. Standardization of connection joints also increases the efficiency of
manufacturing and assembly. For the latter, this study argues that reducing the weight of the
material as much as possible will help DfMA implementation, as also evident in Gerth et al.
(2013), Chen and Lu (2018), Roque and Santos (2017), and Santos and da Silva (2017).
Utilizing the properties of materials means maximizing the use of physical properties and
minimizing material modifications. These measures reduce the level of demand for total
processing time. The emphasis on structural system design is to break down the limitations of
single material consideration. From the whole system, it reduces the consumption required to
process materials, thereby increasing manufacturability and assemblability.
It worth noting that these five guidelines may not have equal weight in every construction
project. Due to the uniqueness of each project, it is necessary to change the importance of these
guidelines in actual practice. For example, in remote areas, logistics-optimized design would
weight higher than other four guidelines. Likewise, prefabrication and cast in-situ will also have
different importance weights under different circumstances. Therefore, when implementing the
DfMA guidelines proposed in this study, one should evaluate their weights rather than treating
them equally each time. By doing so, with due respect to creativity and imagination in design,
DfMA inevitably involves an iteration of MCDM that can be assisted by techniques such as
Weighted Sum Method, Analytic Hierarchy Process, and Technique for Ordered Preference
(Singh and Malik, 2014).

18

Conclusion
DfMA is both a design philosophy and methodology with a long history in the manufacturing
industry. It has many advocates in the construction industry, who believe that DfMA can
alleviate longstanding problems such as lackluster productivity, time delay, cost overrun, and
poor safety. While there are considerable differences between manufacturing and construction
in terms of production processes and final products, the resurgence of offsite prefabrication
construction provides an unprecedented opportunity to adapt DfMA to construction.
Based on a critical investigation of existing DfMA guidelines and the similarities and
differences between manufacturing and construction, we propose five construction-oriented
DfMA guidelines. First, DfMA must consider context-based design because a construction
project must attach to a land within a physical, natural, and cultural context. Second, building
technologies provide unlimited options for construction but their availability and efficiency
must be considered under a DfMA technology-rationalized guiding principle. Third, DfMA in
manufacturing considers parts carefully but rarely their LSCM. In contrast, LSCM play a
pivotal role in construction for both cast in-situ and offsite prefabrication construction.
Therefore, DfMA in construction must consider the logistics-optimized design principle. Fourth,
different levels of onsite and offsite distribution, and different levels of individual and
integrated parts are major considerations in conducting a construction project. Therefore,
DfMA must consider component-integrated designs. Fifth, materials are related to all the above
guiding principles. Use of lightweight materials while guaranteeing structural efficiency is
captured by the principle that DfMA must consider material-lightened designs.
The case study conducted in this study illustrated that the guidelines proposed in this study are
rooted in the general DfMA guidelines but considers the heterogeneity of construction. It can
be further decomposed into more detailed, operable sub-guidelines. Apparently, these
construction-oriented DfMA guidelines can operate individually or collectively. The research
helps to deepen the application of this new design philosophy in the construction industry
through proposing five more construction-oriented guidelines. In practice, these guidelines
provide direct design guidance to designers, which in turn can lead to significant improvements
in manufacturability and assemblability.
The guidelines proposed in this study are not exhaustive. Future studies are recommended to
develop other architecture and construction-oriented DfMA guidelines and practices, with a
view to improving design and construction. Some areas are particularly critical for such
research efforts, e.g., (1) DfMA guidelines for onsite fabrication and prefabrication; (2) DfMA
guidelines for different roles, such as project managers and designers; and (3) a
standard/method for selecting guidelines, and measuring the degree of implementation and its
improvement of manufacturability and assemblability.

19

Data Availability Statement
Some or all data, models, or code that support the findings of this study are available from the
corresponding author upon reasonable request.
References
Aapaoja, A., & Haapasalo, H. (2014). The challenges of standardization of products and
processes in construction. In Proceedings of the 22nd Annual Conference of the
International Group for Lean (pp. 983-993).
Akanni, P. O., Oke, A. E., & Akpomiemie, O. A. (2015). Impact of environmental factors on
building project performance in Delta State, Nigeria. HBRC Journal, 11(1), 91-97.
Arashpour, M., Miletic, M., Williams, N., & Fang, Y. (2018). Design for manufacture and
assembly in off-site construction: Advanced production of modular façade systems. In
ISARC. Proceedings of the International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in
Construction (Vol. 35, pp. 1-6). IAARC Publications.
Ashley, S. (1995). Cutting costs and time with DfMA. Mechanical Engineering, 117(3), 74.
Balfour Beatty (2018). Streamlined construction: Seven steps to offsite and modular building.
Ballard, G., & Howell, G. (1998). What kind of production is construction? In Proc. 6 th Annual
Conf. Int’l. Group for Lean Construction (pp. 13-15).
Banks, C., Kotecha, R., Curtis, J., Dee, C., Pitt, N., & Papworth, R. (2018). Enhancing highrise residential construction through design for manufacture and assembly–a UK case
study. Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers-Management, Procurement and
Law, 171(4), 164-175.
Bogue, R. (2012). Design for manufacture and assembly: background, capabilities and
applications. Assembly Automation, 32(2), 112-118.
Boothroyd, G. (1994). Product design for manufacture and assembly. Computer-Aided Design,
26(7), 505-520.
Boothroyd, G. (2005). Assembly automation and product design. CRC Press.
Camacho, D. D., Clayton, P., O'Brien, W. J., Seepersad, C., Juenger, M., Ferron, R., &
Salamone, S. (2018). Applications of additive manufacturing in the construction
industry–A forward-looking review. Automation in Construction, 89, 110-119.
Chen, K., & Lu, W. (2018). Design for manufacture and assembly oriented design approach to
a curtain wall system: A case study of a commercial building in Wuhan, China.
Sustainability, 10(7), 2211.
Chitkara, K. K. (1998). Construction project management. Tata McGraw-Hill Education.
Chryssolouris, G. (2013). Manufacturing systems: theory and practice. Springer Science &
Business Media.
Corbett, J., Dooner, M., & Meleka, J. (1991). Design for manufacture: strategies, principles
and techniques. C. Pym (Ed.). Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.
Crowley, A. (1998). Construction as a manufacturing process: Lessons from the automotive
industry. Computers & Structures, 67(5), 389-400.
20

Crowther, P. (1999). Design for disassembly. BDP environment design guide.
Dainty, A., Moore, D., & Murray, M. (2007). Communication in construction: Theory and
practice. Routledge.
Eastman, C. M. (2012). Design for X: concurrent engineering imperatives. Springer Science &
Business Media.
Egan, J. (1998). Rethinking construction. Department of Environment, Transport and the
Region.
Emmatty, F. J., & Sarmah, S. P. (2012). Modular product development through platform-based
design and DfMA. Journal of Engineering Design, 23(9), 696-714.
Fox, S., Marsh, L., & Cockerham, G. (2001). Design for manufacture: a strategy for successful
application to buildings. Construction Management and Economics, 19(5), 493-502.
Gann, D. M. (1996). Construction as a manufacturing process? Similarities and differences
between industrialized housing and car production in Japan. Construction Management
& Economics, 14(5), 437-450.
Gao, S., Low, S. P., & Nair, K. (2018). Design for manufacturing and assembly (DfMA): a
preliminary study of factors influencing its adoption in Singapore. Architectural
Engineering and Design Management, 14(6), 440-456.
Gatenby, D. A., & Foo, G. (1990). Design for X (DFX): key to competitive, profitable products.
AT&T Technical Journal, 69(3), 2-13.
Gerth, R., Boqvist, A., Bjelkemyr, M., & Lindberg, B. (2013). Design for construction: utilizing
production experiences in development. Construction Management and Economics,
31(2), 135-150.
Gifford, R. (2007). Environmental psychology: Principles and practice (p. 372). Colville, WA:
Optimal books.
Goulding, J. S., Pour Rahimian, F., Arif, M., & Sharp, M. D. (2015). New offsite production
and business models in construction: priorities for the future research agenda.
Architectural Engineering and Design Management, 11(3), 163-184.
Halfawy, M. M., & Froese, T. M. (2007). Component-based framework for implementing
integrated architectural/engineering/construction project systems. Journal of Computing
in Civil Engineering, 21(6), 441-452.
Hamidi, M., & Farahmand, K. (2008). Developing a design for manufacturing handbook. In
Proceedings of the 2008 IAJC-IJME International Conference, Paper (Vol. 220).
Harik, R. F., & Sahmrani, N. (2010). DFMA+, a quantitative DFMA methodology. ComputerAided Design and Applications, 7(5), 701-709.
Huang, G. Q. (2012). Introduction. In Eastman, C. M. (Ed.). Design for X: concurrent
engineering imperatives. (1-18). Springer Science & Business Media.
Jackson, N. (2016). The modern steel house. Taylor & Francis.
Jewell, C., Flanagan, R., & Lu, W. (2014). The dilemma of scope and scale for construction
professional service firms. Construction Management and Economics, 32(5), 473-486.

21

Jin, R., Gao, S., Cheshmehzangi, A., & Aboagye-Nimo, E. (2018). A holistic review of off-site
construction literature published between 2008 and 2018. Journal of Cleaner Production.
Kalay, Y. E. (1999). Performance-based design. Automation in construction, 8(4), 395-409.
Kim, M. K., McGovern, S., Belsky, M., Middleton, C., & Brilakis, I. (2016). A suitability
analysis of precast components for standardized bridge construction in the United
Kingdom. Procedia Engineering, 164, 188-195.
Koskela, L. (1992). Application of the new production philosophy to construction (Vol. 72).
Stanford, CA: Stanford University.
Kuo, T. C., Huang, S. H., & Zhang, H. C. (2001). Design for manufacture and design for ‘X’:
concepts, applications, and perspectives. Computers & Industrial Engineering, 41(3),
241-260.
Laing O’Rourke (2013). The future of DfMA is the future of construction. Engineering
Excellence Journal (2013), 77.
Lanigan, M. (1992). Engineers in business: The principles of management and product design.
Addison-Wesley Publishing Company.
Latham, S. M. (1994). Constructing the team.
Liao, L., Teo, E. A. L., & Low, S. P. (2017). A project management framework for enhanced
productivity performance using building information modelling. Construction Economics
and Building, 17(3), 1-26.
Lu, W. (2017). Design for ‘X’, not for a high index: The proposition of an optimal level of
prefabrication construction for different socio-economic technical contexts. In RISUD
Annual International Symposium 2017.
Lu, W., Lai, C. C., & Tse, T. (2018a). BIM and Big Data for Construction Cost Management.
Routledge.
Lu, W., Chen, K., Xue, F., & Pan, W. (2018b). Searching for an optimal level of prefabrication
in construction: An analytical framework. Journal of Cleaner Production, 201, 236-245.
Lu, W., Ye, K., Flanagan, R., & Jewell, C. (2013). Developing construction professional
services in the international market: SWOT analysis of China. Journal of Management in
Engineering, 29(3), 302-313.
Lu, W., Huang, G. Q., & Li, H. (2011). Scenarios for applying RFID technology in construction
project management. Automation in Construction, 20, 101-106.
Lu, W., & Yuan, H. (2010). Exploring critical success factors for waste management in
construction projects of China. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 55(2), 201-208.
Maskell, B. H. (2013). Performance measurement for world class manufacturing: A model for
American companies. Productivity Press.
McHarg, I. L. (1992). Design with nature (No. 712: 504.75). John Wiley & Sons.
Mitropoulos, P., & Tatum, C. B. (1999). Technology adoption decisions in construction
organizations. Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 125(5), 330-338.
Ofori, G. (1994). Construction industry development: role of technology transfer. Construction
Management and Economics, 12(5), 379-392.
22

Paez, O., Salem, S., Solomon, J., & Genaidy, A. (2005). Moving from lean manufacturing to
lean construction: Toward a common sociotechnological framework. Human Factors and
Ergonomics in Manufacturing & Service Industries, 15(2), 233-245.
Pearce, D. (2003). Environment and business: Socially responsible but privately profitable?.
Profile Books.
RIBA (2013). RIBA Plan of Work 2013 Designing for Manufacture and Assembly. RIBA
London.
Roque, E., & Santos, P. (2017). The effectiveness of thermal insulation in lightweight steelframed walls with respect to its position. Buildings, 7(1), 13.
Santos, P., & da Silva, L. S. (2017). Energy efficiency of light-weight steel-framed buildings.
Energy Efficient Buildings, 35.
Sanvido, V. E., & Medeiros, D. J. (1990). Applying computer-integrated manufacturing
concepts to construction. Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 116(2),
365-379.
Scotta, R., Trutalli, D., Fiorin, L., Pozza, L., Marchi, L., & De Stefani, L. (2015). Light steeltimber frame with composite and plaster bracing panels. Materials, 8(11), 7354-7370.
Singh, A., & Malik, S. K. (2014). Major MCDM Techniques and their application-A Review.
IOSR Journal of Engineering, 4(5), 15-25.
Sobotka, A., Czarnigowska, A., & Stefaniak, K. (2005). Logistics of construction projects.
Foundations of Civil and Environmental Engineering, 6, 203-216.
Stoll, H. W. (1986). "Design for manufacture: An owerwiew." Appl Mech Rev, 39(9), 1356.
Swift, K. G, & Brown, N. J. (2013). Implementation strategies for design for manufacture
methodologies, Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. Part B: Journal
of Engineering Manufacture, 217(6), 827–833.
Tan, T., Chen, K., Xue, F., & Lu, W. (2019). Barriers to Building Information Modeling (BIM)
implementation in China's prefabricated construction: An interpretive structural modeling
(ISM) approach. Journal of Cleaner Production, 219, 949-959.
The Economist (2017). The construction industry’s productivity problem [Electronic Version].
The Economist. https://econ.st/2RzMkLW, retrieved on April 03, 2019.
Vidalakis, C., Tookey, J. E., & Sommerville, J. (2011). The logistics of construction supply
chains: the builders' merchant perspective. Engineering, Construction and Architectural
Management, 18(1), 66-81.
Winch, G. (2003). Models of manufacturing and the construction process: the genesis of reengineering construction. Building Research & Information, 31(2), 107-118.
Wolstenholme, A., Austin, S. A., Bairstow, M., Blumenthal, A., Lorimer, J., McGuckin, S., ...
& Guthrie, W. (2009). Never waste a good crisis: a review of progress since Rethinking
Construction and thoughts for our future.
Yuan, Z., Sun, C., & Wang, Y. (2018). Design for Manufacture and Assembly-oriented
parametric design of prefabricated buildings. Automation in Construction, 88, 13-22.

23

Zhang H., Luo S., Tang S., & Li Y. (2018). Conceptual House for the Future: Architecture
Expansion Based on C-house Construction, Performance, Humanities and Design.
Architectural Journal, 603(12), 105 -109. (in Chinese).
Zhong, R., Peng, Y., Xue, F., Fang, J., Zou, W., Luo, H., Ng. S.T., Lu, W.S., Shen, Q.P., and
Huang, G.Q. (2017). Prefabricated construction enabled by the Internet-of-Things.
Automation in Construction, 76(4), 59–70.

24

