The Heterogeneity of BIM Objects in Different Construction Contexts
Jing WANG1, Weisheng LU2, Diandian LIU3, and Fan XUE4
1

PhD Candidate, Department of Real Estate and Construction, Faculty of
Architecture, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; e-mail:
jingww@connect.hku.hk
2
Associate Professor, Department of Real Estate and Construction, Faculty of
Architecture, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; e-mail: wilsonlu@hku.hk
3
PhD Candidate, Department of Real Estate and Construction, Faculty of
Architecture, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; e-mail:
liudd@connect.hku.hk
4
Research Assistant Professor, Department of Real Estate and Construction, Faculty
of Architecture, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; e-mail: xuef@hku.hk
This is the pre-print version of the paper
Wang, J., Lu, W., Liu, D., & Xue, F. (2018). The Heterogeneity of BIM
Objects in Different Construction Contexts. In Construction Research
Congress 2018, pp. 210-220. Doi: 10.1061/9780784481264.021
The final version is available here: https://doi.org/10.1061/9780784481264.021

ABSTRACT
Building Information Modelling (BIM) objects are the primary ‘building
blocks’ that form a building information model to store, organize and visualize project
information. ‘One size does not fit all’; BIM objects, along with their associated
information, vary significantly from one construction context to another. In parallel
with the deepening of BIM globalization is the increasing emphasis of “BIM
localization”, whereby designers desire a context-specific BIM object library that is in
accord with the local building specifications and construction needs. Prevailing
practice is to manually make the BIM objects and organize them in a library. This
practice, however, could be inefficient, tedious and error-prone, particularly when the
task is to deal with millions of objects in real-life projects. This study aims to explore
the heterogeneity of BIM objects, with a view to facilitating the design of such contextspecific BIM libraries using automatic or semi-automatic approaches. It first identifies
the critical parameters that distinguish a general BIM object. Taking these parameters
as the comparison criteria, the study further explores the variations of BIM objects in
different construction contexts and the underlying factors leading to the variations.
With such parameters identified, it is able to use the computational power to build up
the BIM objects library (e.g. from other sources) for a specific construction context.
The study outcomes could enable efficient BIM design and promote BIM
implementation in real-life projects. The study could also contribute to the existing
knowledge of BIM objects and offer significant implications to soft-landing BIMbased building project delivery.

1

Keywords: BIM objects, heterogeneity, object parameters, Industry Foundation
Classes, contextual attributes.

INTRODUCTION
It has been widely acknowledged that Building Information Modelling (BIM)
is revolutionizing the landscape of building design and information management in the
global architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) industry (Eastman et al. 2011;
Hardin and McCool 2015; Chen et al. 2017). Unlike traditional modelling methods,
BIM, from a layman’s perspective, is to assemble various BIM objects together to
digitally represent the physical or functional characteristics of a facility. BIM objects
stand at the central position in BIM design and subsequent BIM-based project delivery.
BIM objects are not only the ‘building blocks’ to compose a BIM model; more
importantly, they store, organize and visualize substantial building information into
their geometry and non-geometry parameters (Lee et al. 2006; Pratt 2004; Eastman et
al. 2011). In a sense, the BIM objects can be deemed as carriers of domain knowledge
and expertise on building design and project delivery, as their parameters are modified
according to engineering and project requirements (Belsky et al. 2016; Gao et al. 2017).
Considerable efforts have been paid to exploring the potential of BIM objects
in enhancing efficient BIM utilization and promotion. For example, the Industry
Foundation Classes (IFC) schema standardizes the representation of BIM objects and
their parameters for data exchange between different BIM applications
(buildingSMART 2016). Lu et al. (2017) proposed a conceptual model to efficiently
develop an open-access BIM object library, with the aim to facilitate BIM design by
organizing the existing BIM resources and making them available to BIM users. Ali
and Mohamed (2017) depicted a method to group BIM objects by trade (e.g. structural,
mechanical etc.), making it possible for different stakeholders to get the necessary
information for professional analyses. Besides, several voluntary organizations,
working together with some material suppliers, have started to develop online BIM
objects libraries in view of the inadequacy of the elementary and scarce of BIM objects
provided by BIM vendors. Popular BIM object libraries include BIMobject, MagiCAD,
The National BIM Library in the UK, Product spec - the national library of products in
New Zealand, and so on. Despite the joint efforts, soft-landing of these ideas has been
hindered in practice due to the lacking consideration of the influence that local
environment will exert on BIM objects.
One size does not fit all; BIM objects, along with their associated information,
vary significantly from one construction context to another. This could be crucial to
local BIM implementation to a substantial extent (Sebastian and Berlo 2010). BIM
objects are intrinsically clusters of information of corresponding building and
construction projects (Lu et al. 2017), which vary significantly as their locations
changing. For example, every construction context has their own building codes,
specifications, and engineering requirements, which requires a unique set of contextspecific BIM objects with parameters in line with the local requirements. The culture
difference will also influence the construction practice, and consequently the
information stored in BIM objects (Xiao and Boyd 2007). Therefore, when utilizing
BIM objects in practice, huge manual efforts are necessary to tailor the BIM objects to
2

the local building specifications and construction needs. This could be inefficient,
tedious and error-prone, particularly when it comes to dealing with millions of objects
in a complex, real-life project.
This paper aims to explore the heterogeneity of BIM objects in different
construction contexts, which is a critical and foremost step to develop a contextspecific BIM object library using automatic or semi-automatic approaches. By
heterogeneity, we mean the variation of BIM object parameters in different
construction contexts, specifically, how and why BIM objects vary in different
countries. The remainder of the paper starts with a review of IFC documents and
literature to identify the critical BIM object parameters and their representations in IFC
documents. Based on the outcomes, the methodology of the paper is presented in the
following section. The variations of identified BIM object parameters in different
construction contexts are shown in Section 4, followed by a discussion summarizing
the underlying contextual attributes leading to the variations, and the concluding
remarks in the last section.

LITERATURE REVIEW
IFC Schema – the Description of BIM Object Information
The Industry Foundation Classes (IFC) is a widely-adopted data exchange
schema that facilitates BIM interoperability in the AEC industry (Eastman, et al. 2011).
Developed by buildingSMART, IFC defines the information of BIM objects using an
EXPRESS based entity-relationship model, which consists of more than 600 entities
organized into an object-based inheritance hierarchy (BuildingSMART 2016). Figure
1 illustrates parts of the IFC4 Add2 schema. IfcRoot is at the most abstract level,
derived from which there are three fundamental entity types in an IFC model –
IfcObjectDefinition captures semantically treated tangible object items (e.g. products,
processes, resources, etc.), IfcPropertyDefinition defines the characteristics of both
general object types and specific object occurrences, and IfcRelationship assigns
property information to the corresponding BIM objects while specifying the
relationships among objects. Today, IFC has been widely adopted as a general standard
and supported by many BIM software vendors (Gao et al. 2017; Ali and Moahmed
2017).

Figure 1. Parts of the IFC4 Add2 schema

3

BIM Object Parameters
Previous studies have explored BIM object parameters and their classifications
in different application scenarios (Table 1). Although the classification criteria vary in
the studies, they emphasize some parameters in common, such as identification,
geometry, material, manufacturer, technical attributes, and information relating to
project delivery. This is fundamental and essential to support BIM object utilization
and consequently wider BIM adoptions.
However, despite the joint efforts of academia and industry, the influence of
local contexts on BIM object parameters has never been studied systematically. It is
not enough to simply identify the object parameter types for wider applications of BIM
objects in practice. To do so requires a systematic study to figure out in what aspect, to
what extent and how the local contexts will constrain and influence the BIM object
parameters.
Table 1. The classification of BIM object parameters
Research/
industry

Application Scenario

Pratt (2004)

BIM object contents
exchange

Functional type; Geometry;

Belsky et al.
(2016)

Semantic enrichment
for BIM objects

Function; Geometry; Material; Identity;
Aggregation relationships;
Composition relationships.

Chen and
Wu (2013)

Parametric BIM object
modelling

Basic Object Data (Identification,
Classification, Geometry, Quantities,
and Phasing); Representation data
(Material)

Open
Geospatial
Consortium
(OGC, 2007)

Object data description
in CityGML for virtual
3D city and landscape

Geometrical, Topological, Semantic,
and Appearance properties.

Autodesk
Revit

Modelling and
professional analysis
(e.g. thermal)

Identification (number, name, type,
description); Classification (OmniClass
code and description); Geometry;
Material; Quantities; Manufacturer;
Cost; Phasing; LEED, Thermal and
Structural Properties, etc.

(2017)

Object Parameters

Attributes; Relations between objects;
Behavioural rules.

4

RIBA
(2014)

Object data description
defined in NBS BIM
Object Standard

Authorship, Identification (name,
Uniclass code, and product link),
Manufacturer, NBS description, and
reference, etc.

NIBS (2012)

Information Collection
via Cobie to improve
handover to owneroperator

Authorship, Identification (created by,
category, Description, type, code, etc.)
Manufacturer, Warranty, Geometry,
Material

CIBSE

Product description for
manufacturer defined
in Product Data
Templates(PDTs)

Manufacturer, Construction,
Application, Dimension, Performance,
Electrical, Controls, Sustainability,
Operations and Maintenance

(2016)

METHODOLOGY
The primary aim of this paper is to explore the heterogeneity of BIM objects in
different countries, or say, to figure out how and why BIM objects and their parameters
vary in different construction contexts. There are three necessary steps to achieve the
aim:
(1) To identify the critical parameters that define a BIM object;
(2) To summarize the features of the identified BIM object parameters in
various construction contexts; and
(3) To analyze the contextual attributes that will influence BIM object
heterogeneity.
Step (1) is particularly necessary given that there is a myriad of object
parameters identified for different application scenarios. Based on the literature review
presented in the previous chapter, we selected three types of critical BIM object
parameters for heterogeneity analysis in this paper. They are,
• Identification: the name, classification, code, or other attributes for users to
recognize individual objects;
• Geometry & representation: the physical characteristics and appearance of
BIM objects, such as dimensions, materials, colours, etc; and
• Behaviour: the influence of BIM objects to the external systems, such as
the function (e.g. structural, thermal, acoustic attributes), and information
relating to project delivery (e.g. cost, manufacturer, construction).
For each identified parameter, the context-specific features are summarized and
discussed in Step (2) and (3). This is based on a review of literature, standards, and
industry reports, as well as the analysis of BIM objects from bimobject, one of the
largest online BIM object libraries providing objects from manufacturers. We collected
and analyzed the data of 102 fixed frame windows to identify context-specific features
of BIM objects. The selected construction contexts are Hong Kong, China, the United
5

Kingdom, and the United States. They are in the leading position of BIM
implementation and have their own sets of BIM standards, regulations and industry
reference. Admittedly, the analysis of context-specific object features is not exhaustive,
but it is an important step to unravel the general patterns of BIM object heterogeneity.

THE BIM OBJECT HETEROGENEITY IN DIFFERENT CONTEXTS
Identification
The identification parameters are essentials for BIM users to recognize
individual BIM objects. The object name is one of the primary identifiers, which makes
it possible to connect the BIM object with external information sources (e.g. technical
specifications) and retrieve BIM object information efficiently (Goedert and Meadati
2008; Gandhi and Jupp 2014). The object name consists of several description
segments (e.g. functions, types), which are ordered according to their importance
perceived by the BIM designers (Chen et al. 2017). The perception of BIM designers
can be influenced by several factors, including the knowledge, owners’ requirements,
the local building and construction industry, the culture, etc. Therefore, BIM object
naming conventions could vary in different countries/regions. Table 2 is a summary of
BIM object naming conventions of Hong Kong, China, the UK and the US. It is
identified that the naming conventions vary in segment wording, selection, and
ordering. The Hong Kong naming convention emphasizes the features of objects, the
one of the UK focuses on the source of objects, while the US on the classification of
objects. It should be noticed that the object naming in China doesn’t show any distinct
feature due to a lack of BIM object naming standard.
Another important identifier is the classification system, which describes BIM
objects in a standardized way (Afsari and Eastman 2016). Various classification
systems are adopted in different countries, presented in Figure 2. The percentage
indicates how many percents of BIM objects (fixed frame windows from bimobject)
are classified by the system. It is implied that Uniclass is the most popular classification
system in Hong Kong, China, and the UK, while CSI MasterFormat, OmniClass and
CSI UniFormat II gain more support in the US.
Table 2. The Summary of BIM object naming conventions
Context

Specification

Published by

Naming Convention

Hong
Kong

BIM Library
Components
Reference

Hong Kong
Housing Authority
(HKHA), 2010

<Author>_<Location>_
<Type>_<Features>_
<Series>_<Codes>

China

/

/

/

The UK

NBS BIM
Object
Standard

Royal Institute of
British Architects,
2014

<Role>_<Manufacturer>_
<Type> _<Subtype/Product
code> _<Differenciator>

6

The
USA

BIM
Guidelines

NYC Department
of Design and
Construction, 2012

<Category>_<Type>_
<Subtype>_<Manufacturer>
_<Description>

E/A Design
Division

The Port Authority
of NY & NJ, 2012

<Type>_<Subtype>_
<Manufacturer>_<Series/
Model>_<Description>

BIM Standard
Manual

100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%

HK
Uniclass

China
CSI MasterFormat

UK
OmniClass

US
CSI UniFormat II

Figure 2. Classification systems in different construction contexts
Geometry & Representation
The geometry and representation parameters, describing the physical features
and appearance of BIM objects, are constrained by domain knowledge and expertise to
meet the project requirements (Lee et al. 2004). It includes a broad range of contextual
issues, such as building specifications, general architectural styles, aesthetics, available
construction materials from the market, etc. In this regard, the parameters of geometry
and representation will distinctively vary in different construction contexts. For
example, the materials variation of fixed frame windows is presented in Figure 3, where
the percentage indicates the proportion of BIM objects made from the materials. Glass
and Aluminium, implied from the figure, are the most popular materials especially in
Hong Kong and China. Glass is necessary for the lighting, while aluminium is chosen
for its high performance in terms of affordability, design flexibility, durability, and
energy saving. Thus, aluminium is often used for windows of high-rise buildings that
are particularly common in HK. It is also suggested that a larger portion of windows is
made from wood in the UK, while a wider variety of materials adopted in the US,
compared to the other three countries.

7

100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%

Hong Kong

China

UK

US

Aluminium

Fiber Glass

Glass

PVC

Plastic

Steel

Vinyl

Wood

Figure 3. Materials in different construction contexts
Behaviour
The behaviour parameter indicates the reaction of BIM objects to the external
stimulates (Lee et al. 2004), or say, the influence that BIM objects exert on the external
system. One of the illustrators is the function parameter of BIM objects, such as the
structural, thermal, acoustic attributes. In IFC files, these parameters are usually
defined in a form of <Attributes>_<Values>_<Units> in IfcProperty. The Value
could be single, listed, enumerated or bounded in different unit systems with design
specifications and domain expertise embedded. Thus, a value might vary significantly
in different contexts. For example, the distributed imposed loadings of floor objects are
2.0 kPa, 2.0 kPa, 1.5 kPa for domestic buildings in Hong Kong, China, and the UK
respectively. Comparatively, in the US, the floor loading is presented as a list value in
both imperial unit system and international unit system (Figure 4).

Figure 4. The floor distributed imposed loading attributes used in the US
(sources: Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures)

DISCUSSION
BIM objects are the primary “building blocks” that store, organize and visualize
project information in the BIM environment. Project information distinguishes BIM
objects from any other forms of product representation, and BIM objects vary in
different construction contexts as the project information changes.
The BIM object variation, or say, its heterogeneity in different construction
contexts could be classified into two categories – the variation of the information itself,
8

and the way of information presentation and organization. The former one goes beyond
the environment of BIM and is largely determined by the domain expertise. This
includes context-specific project knowledge and experience. For example, the object
parameters of geometry, representation, and behaviour are numerically or textually
constrained by factors such the local resources, industry specifications, building
features, project delivery methods and even the cultures. This is one of the reasons why
wood materials are more widely used for construction in the European countries such
as the UK rather than in Hong Kong.
The object identification parameter, comparatively, depends more on the
standardization of information presentation and organization in BIM environment. It
varies textually in different countries, as building departments are trying to publish
their own BIM standards in line with local requirements to promote BIM
implementation.
Four contextual attributes are summarized in this study to account for the BIM
object heterogeneity. They are:
• Local resources, such as materials, manpower, machinery, technology,
finance, space, etc.
• Regulations and policies, which standardize information representation
and organization in BIM objects, and set minimum requirements to
constrain the object contents.
• Architectural features, mainly influencing the geometry and representation
parameters of BIM objects, as well as defining a unique set of BIM objects
in different regions.
• Culture, which causes differences in people’s thinking, learning and thus
practice in construction (Xiao and Boyd 2007). It may directly influence
individual patterns to determine the values of BIM object attributes or be
embedded into other contextual features such as architectural features,
regulations, and policies.
This study, by exploring the heterogeneity of BIM objects in different
construction contexts, offers both practice significance and academic merits. Firstly, it
is valuable to develop national BIM object libraries to enhance BIM design efficiency.
By following the deliverables of the study, local project requirements can be analyzed,
interpreted and understood much easier. This is important for library developers to
enrich BIM object local semantics and provide a particular set of BIM objects in line
with local BIM users’ needs. Besides, the study acts as an essential step towards
developing BIM object ontology by identifying the critical BIM object parameters and
their data representations in the model.

CONCLUSIONS
As the most fundamental elements that stores building information in line with
domain expertise and project requirements, the BIM object with rich local semantics is
necessary for efficient BIM design and subsequent project delivery. Without a general
understanding of how BIM object parameters change in different construction contexts,
it is difficult to develop a library to organize these BIM objects for local BIM design,
let alone promoting local BIM implementation to a substantial extent. This paper, by
9

exploring BIM object heterogeneity in different construction contexts, has both
academic merits and immediate practical significance. It identifies three BIM object
parameters that are critical to defining a BIM object, namely the identification,
geometry and representation, and the behaviour. This is an essential step to explore
BIM knowledge, such as BIM object ontology and semantics, which are fundamental
to support a wide range of BIM application towards an intelligent project delivery.
Based on the identified parameters, the paper summarizes the variations of BIM object
parameters in different contexts, and the underlying contextual attributes leading to
these variations. The attempt is the fundamental research frontiers to explore general
knowledge of BIM localization. Besides, this study offers significant implications to
analyze the local requirements of BIM object information and its representation. This
facilitates the development of a localized BIM object library by providing a particular
set of BIM objects that meet the local users’ needs, and therefore, enhance BIM design
efficiency and local promotion.

REFERENCES
Ali, M., and Mohamed, Y. (2017). “A method for clustering unlabeled BIM objects
using entropy and TF-IDF with RDF encoding”. Advanced Engineering
Informatics, 33, 154-163.
Afsari, K., and Eastman, C. M. (2016). “A comparison of construction classification
systems used for classifying building product models”. Proc., 52nd ASC
Annual Int. Conference.
Belsky, M., Sacks, R., and Brilakis, I. (2016). “Semantic enrichment for building
information
modelling”. Computer‐Aided
Civil
and
Infrastructure
Engineering, 31(4), 261-274.
BuildingSMART. the IFC4 Add 2 Schema (2016). <http://www.buildingsmarttech.org/specifications/ifc-releases/ifc4-add2>.
Chartered
Institution
of
Building
Services
Engineers.
(2016).
<
http://www.cibse.org/knowledge/bim-building-informationmodelling/product-data-templates>.
Chen, K., Lu, W., Wang, H., Niu, Y., and Huang, G. G. (2017). “Naming Objects in
BIM: A Convention and a Semiautomatic Approach”. J. of Constr. Eng. and
Manage., 143(7), 06017001.
Cheng, Y. M., and Wu, I. C. (2013). “Parametric BIM Objects Exchange and Sharing
between Heterogeneous Systems”.
Eastman, C. M., Eastman, C., Teicholz, P., and Sacks, R. (2011). BIM handbook: A
guide to building information modeling for owners, managers, designers,
engineers and contractors. John Wiley & Sons.
Gandhi, S., and Jupp, J. (2014). “BIM and Australian Green Star Building
Certification.” Computing in Civil and Building Engineering, 275-282.
Gao, G., Liu, Y. S., Lin, P., Wang, M., Gu, M., and Yong, J. H. (2017). “BIMTag:
Concept-based automatic semantic annotation of online BIM product
resources”. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 31, 48-61.

10

Goedert, J. D., and Meadati, P. (2008). “Integrating construction process
documentation into building information modeling.” J. Constr. Eng. Manage.,
134(7), 509-516.
Hardin, B., and McCool, D. (2015). BIM and construction management: proven tools,
methods, and workflows. John Wiley & Sons.
Hong Kong Housing Authorigy. (2010). “Building Information Modelling (BIM)
Library Components Reference for Development and Construction Division of
Hong
Kong
Housing
Authority”.
Retrieved
from
<
https://www.housingauthority.gov.hk/en/common/pdf/businesspartnerships/resources/building-information-modelling/libraryreference.pdf>.
Lee, G., Sacks, R., and Eastman, C. M. (2006). “Specifying parametric building object
behavior (BOB) for a building information modeling system”. Automation in
construction, 15(6), 758-776.
Lu, W.S., Chen K., Wang J., and Xue F. (2017). “Developing an Open Access BIM
Objects Library: A Hong Kong Study”. Proc., the Joint Conference on
Computing in Construction (JC3), July 4-7, 2017, Heraklion, Greece, 407-414.
National Institute of Building Science. (2012). Construction Operations Building
Information
Exchange
(COBie):
Version
2.40
Update.
<
http://www.nibs.org/?page=bsa_cobiev24>.
New York City Department of Design and Construction. (2012). “BIM Guidelines”.
Retrieved
from
<
http://www.nyc.gov/html/ddc/downloads/pdf/DDC_BIM_Guidelines.pdf>.
Open
Geospatial
Consortium
(2007).
CityGML.
<https://www.3dcitydb.org/3dcitydb/citygml/>.
Port Authority of New York & New Jersey. (2012). “E/A Design Division BIM
Standard Manual”. Retrieved from <https://www.panynj.gov/businessopportunities/pdf/engineering-consultants-ead-bim-standard-manuaseptember-2012.pdf>.
Pratt, M. J. (2004). “Extension of ISO 10303, the STEP standard, for the exchange of
procedural shape models.” Proc., Shape Modeling Applications, IEEE, 317326.
Royal
Institute
of
British
Architects.
(2014).
<
https://www.nationalbimlibrary.com/resources/bimobjectstandard/NBS-BIMObject-Standard-v1_3_0616.pdf>.
Sebastian, R., and van Berlo, L. (2010). “Tool for benchmarking BIM performance of
design, engineering and construction firms in the Netherlands”. Architectural
Engineering and Design Management, 6(4), 254-263.
Xiao, H., and Boyd, D. (2007). “A cross-culture analysis of construction practice
through knowledge events”. Proc., 23rd Annual ARCOM Conference, 181190.

11

