Smart contract: Is it really smart in construction?
Liupengfei Wu1*, Weisheng Lu2, Rui Zhao3, Fan Xue4

This is the authors’ pre-print version of the paper: Wu, L., Lu, W., Zhao, R., & Xue. F. (2021).
Smart contract: Is it really smart in construction?. Proceedings of the 26th International
Symposium on Advancement of Construction Management and Real Estate (CRIOCM2021),
Springer, in press.
This file is shared for personal and academic use only, under the license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0
(Non-Commercial, No Derivatives, and with an Attributed citation when you use). The final
published version of this paper can be found at: [LINK_TO_SPRINGERLINK]. Any uses other
than personal and academic purposes must obtain appropriate permissions from Springer first.
Abstract: A smart contract is a protocol that can self-execute when predefined conditions are met.
This new technology is considered destructive and can transfer the construction industry. In
Blockchain 2.0, the combined use of blockchain and smart contracts allows users to express
business logic to achieve more advanced transactions. This research aims to critically analyze the
challenges, progresses, and benefits of smart contracts in construction through a systematic
literature review to address whether it is smart. The findings suggested that numerous progress had
been made to address the challenges of smart contracts. Besides, the benefits of smart contracts have
attracted the construction industry. The research findings can open the avenue for researchers and
construction practitioners to understand the impacts of the salient features of smart contracts and
determine appropriate application areas.
Keywords: Smart contracts; Blockchain; Construction industry; Self-execution; Disruptive
technology

1* Liupengfei Wu

Corresponding author, Department of Real Estate and Construction, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China
E-mail: u3545425@connect.hku.hk
2

Weisheng Lu
Department of Real Estate and Construction, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China
3 Rui Zhao

Department of Real Estate and Construction, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China
4 Fan Xue

Department of Real Estate and Construction, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China

1 Introduction
In recent years, blockchain has attracted widespread attention from researchers and practitioners.
A blockchain is a distributed database with cryptography and endorsement, without a trusted third
party[1]. Thus, transactions can be realized cheaply and swiftly. The cryptography of blockchains
also ensure trust-building. Therefore, attackers almost impossible to tamper with recorded
transactions in blockchains, and all historical transaction records are traceable[1].
Blockchain technology is driving smart contracts, which Nick Szabo initially proposed in the
1990s[2]. A smart contract is a protocol that can self-execute when preset conditions are satisfied.
Smart contracts are essentially coupled with blockchains. On the contrary, traditional contracts
may need to be completed in a centralized mode by a trusted third party, leading to
time-consuming process and high financial costs. The coupled use of blockchain with smart
contracts satisfies the fair beliefs of contemporary society, where efficient transactions and trust
perform an essential part. However, the construction industry was listed as one of the lowest
sectors to have employed engineering informatics during the third industrial revolution[1].
Therefore, comparable to the digital revolution in other industries, there is a puzzle about whether
smart contracts are smart in construction.
Research on smart contracts will help understand the impacts of salient features and
determine appropriate application areas. Initially, in Blockchain 1.0, Blockchain was applied as
the fundamental technology of cryptocurrency. In Blockchain 2.0, the coupled use of Blockchain
and smart contracts enables users to code more advanced business logic to achieve more
automated transactions[2]. The advantages of smart contracts include but are not limited to
automated processes, high accuracy, trust-free (because there is no third party, so there is no need
to trust individuals), and reduced costs[3]. Smart contracts are considered to be disruptive to many
global industries including construction[3].
This study discussed the basics of blockchain and smart contracts, building up the research
question of whether the smart contract is really smart in construction. The rest of the paper is
organized as follows: Section two provides the research methodology. The next section reviews
the basics of blockchain and smart contracts. The fourth section identifies the challenges and
progresses of smart contracts. Subsequently, Section 5 highlights recognized benefits of smart
contracts in the construction industry. Section 6 concludes the study.

2 Research methodology
The research methodology of this article includes four parts, as shown in Figure 1. A systematic
literature review was adopted, and the limitation was set to filter the publications relevant to
blockchain from the Google Scholar. Next, a screening procedure was performed to determine the
publications that are entirely concentrated on smart contracts and technological aspects. The
literature review was conducted on 15 conference papers and 7 journal papers. Then, the collected
and finalized publications were critically reviewed. A similar review was conducted by [1] to
assess the published academic articles on blockchain technology and have determined the
application areas of blockchains.

Figure 1. Research methodology

Figure 1 demonstrates that the conceptualization part occurred where finalized publications
were grouped into various categories. Next, the basics of blockchain and smart contracts were
determined. This progresses to the interpreting of challenges and progresses of smart contracts.
After that, an analysis was conducted to determine smart contracts’ potential benefits in
construction.

3 Literature Review
3.1 Blockchain Basics
A blockchain can be defined as a distributed database in which all transactions are immutable after
recording. As shown in Figure 2 below, a blockchain is an incessantly expanding chain of blocks.
The three fundamental technologies that support blockchain functions are cryptography,
distributed databases, and consensus mechanisms[1]. The consensus mechanisms are developed to
help blockchain network participants endorse the correctness of transactions[3]. Representative
algorithms are Proof of Work (PoW) and Crash Fault Tolerance (CFT), and each algorithm has its
own merits and shortcomings.

Figure 2. Smart contract and blockchain

The blockchain database is composed of many ledgers, which are distributed in different

places in a shared manner[3]. The distributed database is realized through a decentralized network,
in which peer-to-peer transactions can be conducted without the participation of a third party.
Blockchain ensures the immutability of transaction data through a hash algorithm[2]. Any block
carries the hash of the current block and the hash of the previous block[1]. Therefore, if an attacker
wants to tamper with the transaction data of the block, the hash pointers of all the blocks on the chain
will also change.

3.2 Smart Contract Basics
Smart contracts can be observed as a major advancement in blockchains. A smart contract is a
digital protocol that self-executes the responses when preset conditions are satisfied[2]. As
demonstrated in Figure 2, a smart contract is composed by key two parts, namely preset conditions and
responses[3].
Blockchain is the enabler of smart contracts. Smart contracts are combined with blockchains to
automatically execute the processes in the blockchain network[2]. The logical links between contract
terms are processed in logical flow in the protocols (e.g., if-then statement) [2]. After the contract
statement is completed, the smart contract will mark it as a transaction and save it in the blockchain. In
addition, smart contracts can ensure reasonable user control and contract self-execution[2]. For example,
the project owner and the main contractor agree on financial penalties for breach of the progress
contract. If the main contractor violates the contract, the corresponding financial penalties will be
automatically deducted from the main contract’s deposit.
The lifecycle of a smart contract can be divided into four phases, as shown in Figure 3. The first
phase is initialization. The parties involved must reach an agreement, and the lawyers will help draft
the preliminary contract agreement. Then, the software developer will encode the agreement as digital
protocols. Each smart contract has to be designed, implemented, and validated. This phase is iterative,
because an agreement cannot be reached without a few rounds of negotiation. Besides, this phase
involves numerous participants, such as project owners, legal representatives, and software developers.

Figure 3. A lifecycle of a smart contract

The second phase is the configuration of smart contracts. After the participants validate the
smart contract, the software developer can configure it to the blockchain platform. Because of its
immutability, blockchain can provide a secure environment for smart contracts. Also, the relevant

participants’ digital assets defined in smart contracts are blocked by blocking the corresponding
e-wallets[2]. The third phase is the self-execution. After the configuration of smart contracts, the
agreement conditions must be evaluated. When a preset condition is met, the responses will be carried
out automatically. As a result, a transaction will be endorsed and recorded in the blockchains. The last
phase is the completion of smart contracts. After execution, the transaction records will be updated in
the ledgers of the blockchain, and the digital assets will be transferred to the corresponding parties.
Therefore, the digital assets of the participants can be unlocked. Then, the smart contract can complete
the lifecycle.
The configuration, self-execution, and completion phases must feed data to blockchains, as
demonstrated in Figure 3. This is because smart contracts are configured on blockchains, and
transaction execution and recording are all done in the blockchain.

4 Challenges and Progresses
4.1 Challenges of Smart Contract
Despite the myriad promises of smart contracts, there are still some challenges to be solved.
According to the four phases of the smart contract lifecycle, the identified challenges are divided
into four categories. An overview of the latest progresses in addressing these challenges is also
provided. Table 1 outlines the identified challenges and progresses.
Table 1. Challenges of smart contracts
Phases

Challenges

Initialization

Readability
Risk vector

Configuration

Correctness
Dynamic control flow

Self-Execution

Smart oracle
Transaction-ordering dependence
Efficiency

Completion

Privacy
Scam

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Progresses
Recover source code [4]
Human readable code [5]
Human readable execution [6]
Re-entry [7]
Block randomness [8]
Overcharging [9]
Bytecode analysis [10]
Source code analysis [11]
Machine learning based analysis [12]
Graph based analysis [13]
Path-searching [14]
Execution environment [15]
Third-party involved [16]
Reputational incentive mechanism [17]
Sequential execution [18]
Predefining contract [19]
Execution serialization [20]
Inspection of contract [21]
Privacy [22]

•
•

Ponzi scheme [23]
Honeypot [24]

In the initialization phase, readability may pose a challenge to users. Smart contracts are
mainly coded in computer programs using languages such as Go. Then, the software engineers
will compile the smart contract. Therefore, the program can have numerous arrangements of codes.
Making programs readable in every arrange is one of the existing challenges reported from the
collected literature. Also, there are several risk vectors associated with smart contracts. For
example, the re-entry issue allows discontinuous functions to be securely called again, and
attackers may utilize this imperfection to take digital assets.

In the configuration phase, the correctness of contract remains as a challenge. Due to the
blockchains’ immutability, a smart contract is immutable after it is configured on blockchains.
However, examining the correctness can be a challenge because of the difficulty of forming smart
contracts. Smart contracts can interact with each other, so designing a dynamic control process to
ensure a reliable execution environment is also a challenge.
In the self-execution phase, how to determine and use the oracle to ensure the authenticity of
the information from the off-chain world is a challenge. Moreover, current smart contracts cannot
always send transactions to the ordering node to pack them in the correct order. When configuring
a large number of smart contracts on the platform, it is also a challenge to ensure the efficiency of
the smart contracts running at the same time.
In the last phase, ensuring privacy can be a challenge. Existing blockchain solutions are lack
of consideration for privacy, as they report all recorded transactions to network participants.
Therefore, anyone in the network can use smart contracts to invoke private data. As a novel
technology, smart contracts are also exposed scams.

4.2 Progresses of Smart Contract
Recent progresses in smart contracts are summarized in Table 1 above. The latest progresses in
readability challenges include source code recovery, human-readable code, and human-readable
execution. [4] proposed a reverse engineering tool so that the hex-encoded contract can be
converted into human-readable pseudo-codes. [5] demonstrated an automatic analysis system that
can turn the human-readable agreement into programmable programs. [6] showed an intermediate
level language to offer compliers with high-level information. Progresses in minimizing the risk
vectors have also been found in the literature. For example, using named states allows consistent
checks for condition transitions and verification, thereby minimizing re-entry issues[7], applying
delay function to produce block randomness[8], and adopting GasReduce to detect gas-costly
patterns[9]. During the configuration phase, bytecode[10], source code[11] and machine
learning-based analysis[12] are discovered to ensure the correctness of the contracts. Graph-based
analysis[13], path-searching[14], and execution environment[15] are measures to solve dynamic
control flow vulnerabilities.
Recent progresses for oracle include using third-party to scrape data from a reliable source
and feed those data to smart contracts[16]. A reputational-based incentive mechanism was also
found for solving the oracle issue[17]. Sequential execution[18] and predefining contract[19] are two
progresses in Transaction-ordering dependence. [20] used execution serialization (a method based
on Software Transactional Memory) to run smart contracts concurrently. [21] demonstrated a
method named “Inspection of contract” to allow users to revise initial smart contracts without
redeploying them. At the completion stage, [22] demonstrated a decentralized smart contract
system with a privacy protection mechanism. Progresses have also been made for detecting scams
related to the Ponzi scheme[23] and Honeypot[24].

5 Benefits of Using Smart Contracts in Construction
Smart contracts have a wide range of potential benefits in construction [25]. Firstly, smart contracts
can bring accuracy to the construction industry. If the terms and conditions of construction
contracts are accurately written on smart contracts, the execution and supervision of the conditions

will be very accurate. Secondly, smart contracts can help enhance transparency. Every payment,
transaction, interaction, and execution can be coded on smart contracts, making the constructionrelated processes transparent. Thirdly, smart contracts can help risk management. Self-executing
smart contracts can reduce the complexity of construction procurement, thereby minimizing the
risk of delayed payment and reducing disputes. Fourthly, smart contracts can facilitate compliance
checks. Combined with construction standards, smart contracts can help stakeholders
automatically check compliance. Finally, smart contracts can reduce construction costs by
eliminating middlemen and administrators in certain processes.

6 Conclusions
Introduction of Blockchain 2.0 formed a trend that fascinates construction stakeholders to use smart
contracts due to its potential benefits. A smart contract is a protocol that can self-execute when

predefined conditions are met. This paper critically reviews the extensive existing literature on
smart contracts and their challenges, progresses, and benefits in the construction industry. The
literature findings indicated that the smart contract is smart as the next disruptive technology in
construction. The results of this study can help researchers and construction practitioners
understand the impact of the distinctive features of smart contracts and determine appropriate
application areas.

References
[1] Perera, S., Nanayakkara, S., Rodrigo, M. N. N., Senaratne, S., & Weinand, R. (2020).
Blockchain Technology: Is it Hype or Real in the Construction Industry?. Journal of
Industrial Information Integration, 100125.
[2] Zheng, Z., Xie, S., Dai, H. N., Chen, W., Chen, X., Weng, J., & Imran, M. (2020). An overview
on smart contracts: Challenges, progresses and platforms. Future Generation Computer
Systems, 105, 475-491.
[3] Ahmadisheykhsarmast, S., & Sonmez, R. (2020). A smart contract system for security of
payment of construction contracts. Automation in Construction, 120, 103401.
[4] Zhou, Y., Kumar, D., Bakshi, S., Mason, J., Miller, A., &, Bailey, M. (2018). Erays: Reverse
engineering ethereum’s opaque smart contracts, In 27th {USENIX} Security Symposium
{USENIX} Security 18, 1371–1385.
[5] Frantz, C. K., & Nowostawski, M. (2016). From institutions to code: towards auto- mated
generation of smart contracts. In Proceedings of IEEE International Workshops on
Foundations and Applications of Self Systems, IEEE, 210–215.
[6] Lattner, C., & LLVM, V. (2004). A compilation framework for lifelong program analysis &
transformation. In Proceedings of the International Symposium on Code Generation and
Optimization: Feedback-Directed and Runtime Optimization, IEEE Computer Society, 75.
[7] Liu, C., Liu, H., Cao, Z., Chen, Z., Chen, B., & ReGuard, B. (2018). Finding reentrancy bugs
in smart contracts In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Software
Engineering: Companion Proceedings, ACM, 65–68.
[8] Bünz, B., Goldfeder, S., & Bonneau, J. (2017). Proofs-of-delay and randomness beacons in
ethereum. IEEE Security and Privacy on the blockchain (IEEE S&B).
[9] Chen, T., Li, X., Luo, X., & Zhang, X. (2017). Under-optimized smart contracts devour your
money, In Proceedings of 24th International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution and
Reengineering, SANER, 442–446.

[10] Brent, L., Jurisevic, A., Kong, M., Liu, E., Gauthier, F., Gramoli, V., ... & Scholz, B. (2018).
Vandal: A scalable security analysis framework for smart contracts, arXiv, 1809.03981.
[11] Dhawan, M. (2017). Analyzing safety of smart contracts. In Proceedings of the Conference:
Network and Distributed System Security Symposium, San Diego, CA, USA, 16-17.
[12] Tann, W. J. W., Han, X. J., Gupta, S. S., & Ong, Y. S. (2018). Towards safer smart contracts:
A sequence learning approach to detecting security threats, arXiv, 1811.06632.
[13] Fröwis, M., & Böhme, R. (2017). In code we trust?. In Data Privacy Management,
Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Technology, Springer, 357-372.
[14] Nikolić, I., Kolluri, A., Sergey, I., Saxena, P., & Hobor, A. (2018). Finding the greedy,
prodigal, and suicidal contracts at scale. In Proceedings of the 34th Annual Computer
Security Applications Conference, ACM, 653-663.
[15] Fu, Y., Ren, M., Ma, F., Jiang, Y., Shi, H., & Sun, J. (2019). Evmfuzz: Differential fuzz testing
of ethereum virtual machine, arXiv:1903.08483.
[16] Zhang, F., Cecchetti, E., Croman, K., Juels, A., & Shi, E. (2016). Town crier: An
authenticated data feed for smart contracts. In Proceedings of the 2016 aCM sIGSAC
conference on computer and communications security, ACM, 270-282.
[17] Huang, C., Wang, Z., Chen, H., Hu, Q., Zhang, Q., Wang, W., & Guan, X. (2020). Repchain:
A reputation based secure, fast and high incentive blockchain system via sharding. IEEE
Internet of Things Journal, 8(6), 4291 – 4304.
[18] Mavridou, A., & Laszka, A. (2018). Designing secure ethereum smart contracts: A finite state
machine-based approach. In International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data
Security, Springer, 523-540.
[19] Natoli, C., & Gramoli, V. (2016). The blockchain anomaly. In 2016 IEEE 15th International
Symposium on Network Computing and Applications (NCA). IEEE, 310-317.
[20] Dickerson, T., Gazzillo, P., Herlihy, M., & Koskinen, E. (2019). Adding concurrency to smart
contracts. Distributed Computing, 1-17.
[21] Bragagnolo, S., Rocha, H., Denker, M., & Ducasse, S. (2018). SmartInspect: solidity smart
contract inspector. In 2018 International Workshop on Blockchain Oriented Software
Engineering (IWBOSE). IEEE, 9-18.
[22] Kosba, A., Miller, A., Shi, E., Wen, Z., & Papamanthou, C. (2016). Hawk: The blockchain
model of cryptography and privacy-preserving smart contracts. In 2016 IEEE symposium on
security and privacy (SP). IEEE, 839-858.
[23] Bartoletti, M., Carta, S., Cimoli, T., & Saia, R. (2020). Dissecting Ponzi schemes on
Ethereum: identification, analysis, and impact. Future Generation Computer Systems, 102,
259-277.
[24] Torres, C. F., & Steichen, M. (2019). The art of the scam: Demystifying honeypots in
ethereum smart contracts. In 28th {USENIX} Security Symposium ({USENIX} Security 19).
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, 1591-1607.
[25] Penzes, B., Kirkup, A., Gage, C., Dravai, T., & Colmer, M. (2018). Blockchain technology in
the construction industry: Digital Transformation for High Productivity. London, UK:
Institution of Civil Engineers.

