Using blockchain to improve information sharing accuracy in the onsite assembly of modular construction
Liupengfei Wu, Weisheng Lu*, Rui Zhao, Jinying Xu, Xiao Li, and Fan Xue
Dept. of Real Estate and Construction Management, Univ. of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
liupengfeiwu@connect.hku.hk, wilsonlu@hku.hk, ruizhao@hku.hk,
u3004676@connect.hku.hk, xl1991@hku.hk, xuef@hku.hk
This is the peer-reviewed, post-print version of the paper:
Wu, L., Lu, W., Zhao, R., Xu, J., Li, X., & Xue, F. (2022). Using blockchain to improve
information sharing accuracy in the onsite assembly of modular construction. Journal
of Management in Engineering, 38(3), 04022014. Doi: 10.1061/(ASCE)ME.19435479.0001029
This material is shared under the permission of ASCE, and may be downloaded for
personal use only. Any other use requires prior permission of ASCE. The official version
of this paper can be accessed at https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)ME.1943-5479.0001029

5

10

15

Abstract
Onsite assembly is a critical stage for modular construction. Its success or failure depends on
accurate information sharing among numerous stakeholders who, unfortunately, often possess
unsynchronized information. Owing to its decentralized consensus mechanism, blockchain
has the potential to improve information-sharing accuracy on construction sites. However,
little research has documented how this can be done. Adopting a design science research
(DSR) method, this study aims to explore the use of blockchain technology to improve
information-sharing accuracy in the onsite assembly of modular construction (OAMC).
Firstly, an OAMC business process analysis is conducted to understand the issues leading to
information sharing, in particular its accuracy. Then, a blockchain-based conceptual model is
developed. Its components such as membership registration, information sharing-request,
ordering service, consensus mechanism, and distributed storage are described. Finally, a
prototype system is developed and validated in a mock-up OAMC. The results show that the
prototype system can improve the accuracy of information sharing in OAMC by allowing
project participants to endorse information about the modules and their assembly through the
blockchain’s consensus mechanism. This study explores and implements blockchain
technology in a specific construction area. It can serve as a valuable reference for future
endeavors in harnessing the power of blockchain technology, particularly for mobilizing
information endorsement mechanisms for various value-added applications.

20

Keywords: Blockchain; Accurate information sharing; Information endorsement/consensus
mechanism; On-site assembly; Modular construction.

1

25

30

35

40

45

50

55

60

Introduction
Modular construction involves fabricating 3D-volumetric building “modules” under
controlled offsite conditions and transporting them to a building site for assembly into a final
construction product (Li et al., 2021). It can reduce construction time, save labor, improve
worker safety, and help to achieve environmental sustainability goals (Gong et al., 2019).
However, successful project delivery involves complex onsite assembly with myriad
stakeholders (e.g., owners, contractors, subcontractors, and transporters) who interact
frequently based on an array of information (Luo et al., 2020). Thus, onsite assembly in
modular construction (OAMC) requires to share accurate information to minimize the issues
related to assembly rework, labor, time, and occupational health and safety (Li et al., 2019a).
There are several causes to inaccurate information sharing in OAMC. One is the widespread
use of paper or paint labels (Li et al., 2018a). They are too ambiguous to guarantee the
accuracy of OAMC information exchanged (e.g., assembly sequence, module type,
installation location and orientation) (Demiralp et al., 2012). Another reason is the
fragmented nature of construction organizations (Zhai et al., 2019). Project participants from
different organizations may not have a unified information sharing platform, leading to
asymmetric information sharing (Lee et al., 2021b). Inaccurate information sharing in OAMC
could also be attributable to a lack of assurance mechanisms for checking updated
information (Li et al., 2018b; Zhou et al., 2021). In current practice, incomplete or inaccurate
change and scheduling information transmitted from previous processes (e.g., production,
logistics) may be passed to the OAMC phase without endorsement or with serious latency
(Wu et al., 2021).
Emerging from the technology sphere, blockchain could bring about a paradigm shift in the
information management practices of construction (Li et al., 2019b). A blockchain is a
distributed ledger with cryptography and decentralized consensus mechanisms, which can
effectively record and endorse transactions between participants in a shared, secure and
traceable manner (Xue and Lu, 2020). Blockchain benefits include reinforced transparency,
traceability, immutability, privacy, and automation (Perera et al., 2020), promotion of
democratic decision-making through decentralization, and reduced costs through removal of
intermediaries (Li et al., 2021). In construction, blockchain applications have been introduced
for internal administration (Pradeep et al., 2021), self-executing transactions with smart
contracts (Hamledari and Fischer, 2021), immutable records of transactions (Zhong et al.,
2020), secure payment (Das et al., 2020), and combined applications with Internet of things
(IoT) (Elghaish et al., 2021), building information modeling (BIM), and cloud computing (Li
and Kassem, 2021). Although blockchain-based solutions (e.g., Wang et al., 2020; Sheng et
al., 2020; Zhong et al., 2020; Hijazi et al., 2021; Tao et al., 2021) have been proposed for
information management problems (e.g., information sharing, data traceability, and record

2

65

70

75

80

85

90

95

100

immutability) in construction, its applicability to the problem of improving informationsharing accuracy for OAMC has received little attention. For researchers, a clear theoretical
model is needed to explain how blockchain can improve information sharing, while
practitioners desire an operable system.
The aim of this research is twofold: (a) to explore theoretical explanations for how
blockchain can improve information-sharing accuracy; and based on that, (b) to provide
empirical examples of mobilizing blockchain technology to improve information-sharing
accuracy in the context of OAMC. It adopts a design science research (DSR) method
involving a literature review, business process analyses (BPA), prototyping, onsite testing,
validation, and interviews at construction project sites. The remainder of this paper is
organized as follows. Subsequent to this introduction is a literature review of blockchain for
assembly services and its applications in information sharing. The following section
elaborates on the research methodology. Then the results of BPA are described, providing the
basis for developing the theoretical model. After that, the components of this model are
elaborated, based on which a prototype system is developed, validated, and reported.
Research findings and the strengths and limitations of the study are discussed, and then
conclusions are drawn in the last section.
Literature Review
Blockchain technology for assembly services
Blockchain technology has been applied to assembly services in various industries. To ensure
a tamper-proof history of product assembly, for example, Mondragon et al. (2018) adopted
blockchain to record information related to composite materials. In the automotive industry,
Dorri et al. (2017) proposed a blockchain-based architecture to immutably record vehicle
assembly information. Similarly, Ravishankar et al. (2020) used blockchain to record
information related to clutch lever assembly. Other studies have explored blockchain
traceability and transparency in assembly services. For example, Kuhn et al. (2021) designed
a blockchain architecture to enhance the traceability of automotive assembly materials.
Huang et al. (2020) used blockchain to enhance information-sharing efficiency among
participants during turbine assembly. However, little research has attempted to address
blockchain potential for information endorsement in assembly services where efficient
collaboration requires accurate shared information.
In construction, numerous studies have focused on the use of blockchain in supply chain
tracking. For example, Sheng et al. (2020) and Zhang et al. (2020) used blockchain to track
prefabricated components from production to onsite assembly. Wang et al. (2020) explored
blockchain for sharing information on component location for onsite assembly, while Zhong
et al. (2020) and Wu et al. (2021) developed blockchain prototype systems to record
3

105

110

115

120

125

130

135

140

prefabricated component quality information. Although blockchain-based solutions have
been proposed for data traceability, information sharing, and record immutability in
construction, its applicability to improving OAMC information-sharing accuracy has not yet
been systematically examined.
Blockchain technology for information-sharing endorsement
Blockchain protocol incorporates an endorsement (consensus) mechanism to verify the
correctness of block contents (Xue and Lu, 2021). Only when blockchain network
participants have verified the transaction information can it be included in the blockchain as a
new block. Four common consensus algorithms are: proof of work (PoW), proof of stake
(PoS), practical byzantine fault tolerance (PBFT), and crash fault tolerance (CFT) (Lu et al.,
2021a). PoW is typical in finance (Chen et al., 2017), philanthropy (Sirisha et al., 2019), and
democracy and governance (Diallo et al., 2018) because it is an open consensus algorithm
that can ensure the transparency of transactions. However, it needs high computing power
(Lu et al., 2021a). A relatively energy-saving mechanism, PoS assumes that participants with
a greater stake (e.g., coins) display less opportunistic behavior, so they have more
opportunities to endorse blocks. PoS is an open consensus algorithm with relatively low
privacy. It has been adopted by Pop et al. (2018), for example, to verify information in the
energy industry. PBFT is a permissioned network’s consensus protocol, a low-energy
mechanism that requires three rounds of voting (Perera et al., 2020). It was selected by Wang
et al. (2019), for instance, to verify education certificates. However, it is not a cost-effective
choice for relatively small blockchain networks (Hyperledger Fabric, 2020). CFT is another
low-energy mechanism. It does not, for example, require cryptocurrency participants to
conduct expensive mining to verify transactions (Perera et al. 2020).
In construction, blockchain conceptual models and proof-of-concept works related to
information endorsement have recently been investigated in procurement (Yang et al., 2020),
production (Li et al., 2021), quality (Sheng et al., 2020; Zhang et al., 2020; Zhong et al.,
2020), and progress (Wang et al., 2020; Tezel et al., 2021). However, the effectiveness and
efficiency of the consensus mechanism in ensuring accurate information-sharing remains to
be studied. For example, while Pradeep et al. (2021) proposed a blockchain framework to
verify design inputs, it was not evaluated in real-life cases. Das et al. (2020), Hamledari and
Fischer (2021) and Hasan and Salah (2018) focused on blockchain-based payment
verification, but on the security and transparency of payments rather than the effectiveness
and efficiency of endorsement mechanisms. Dounas and Lombardi (2018), meanwhile,
integrated computer-aided design (CAD) and blockchain to endorse CAD modifications, but
their work only allows verifying operation-based transactions from CAD applications. Most
frequently, blockchain is used in construction to verify changes in digital models, especially
BIM (Hunhevicz and Hall, 2020). Lee et al. (2021a) developed and tested an integrated

4

digital twin and blockchain framework for sharing, verifying, and tracking project data, using
a case study to show that the consensus mechanism could prevent hacked information from
being shared. Nevertheless, whether such a mechanism could improve information-sharing
accuracy in construction was largely unexplored.
145

150

Table 1 summarizes the relevant research on the use of blockchain technology for
endorsement in information sharing. The research gaps are summarized by analyzing the
target problem and the adopted platform, consensus mechanism, and testing method,
revealing lack of a model to guide the establishment of an endorsement mechanism for
information sharing in OAMC. In addition, effectiveness of the consensus mechanism in
improving accuracy of information sharing in OAMC has not been empirically evaluated.
Table 1. Included studies related to information endorsement using blockchain technology
ID Reference
Target problem
Blockchain
Consensus
Testing method
platform
mechanism
Non-construction industry
1
Chen et al. (2017)
Cryptocurrency
Bitcoin
PoW
Prototype
transaction endorsement
development
2
Diallo et al. (2018)
Bidding information
A custom
PoW
Prototype
endorsement
blockchain
development
3
Dounas and
Design information
Ethereum
PoW or PoS Prototype
Lombardi (2018)
endorsement
development
4
Pop et al. (2018)
Energy information
Ethereum
PoS
Simulation
endorsement
5
Sirisha et al. (2019) Donation information
Ethereum
PoW
Prototype
endorsement
development
6
Wang et al. (2019)
Education certificate
Hyperledger PBFT
Case study
endorsement
Fabric
Construction industry
7
Hasan and Salah
Digital assets
Ethereum
PoS
Prototype
(2018)
information endorsement
development and
security analysis
8
Das et al. (2020)
Progress payment
Ethereum
PoS
Comparative
information endorsement
analysis
9
Sheng et al. (2020) Quality information
Hyperledger Kafka
Prototype
endorsement
Fabric
consensus
development and
case study
10 Wang et al. (2020)
Production and
Hyperledger PBFT
Case study
transportation
Fabric
information endorsement
11 Xue and Lu (2020) BIM modification
A custom
A custom
Simulation
endorsement
blockchain
consensus
12 Yang et al. (2020)
Design and Procurement Hyperledger PBFT
Case study
information endorsement Fabric
PoS
Ethereum
13 Zhang et al. (2020) Quality information
Hyperledger PBFT
Interview
endorsement
Fabric
14 Zhong et al. (2020) Quality information
Hyperledger PBFT
Prototype
endorsement
Fabric
development
15 Hamledari and
Progress payment
Ethereum
PoW
Case study
Fischer (2021)
information endorsement

5

16

Li et al. (2021)

17

Lu et al. (2021a)

18

Lee et al. (2021a)

19

Wu et al. (2021)

20

Pradip et al. (2021)

21

Tezel et al. (2021)

Module production
information endorsement
Project application
information endorsement
Project-related
information sharing and
endorsement
Quality information
endorsement
Design information
endorsement
Progress payment
information endorsement

Hyperledger
Fabric
Hyperledger
Fabric
Ethereum

PBFT

Hyperledger
Fabric
Ethereum

PBFT

Ethereum

PoW

CFT
PoW

PoW

Prototype
development
Prototype
development
Case study
Prototype
development
Prototype
development
Focus group studies

155

Research Methodology
This study adopts design science research (DSR) method, an analytical and creative approach
that involves creating meaningful artifacts to solve identified problems (Pradeep et al., 2021).
The four steps involved are shown in Fig. 1.
160

Fig. 1. Methodological steps
6

165

170

175

180

185

190

195

200

The first step was to understand the issues leading to sharing of inaccurate information. The
research team conducted BPA of multiple modular construction projects, onsite assembly
processes in particular, to identify problems related to information-sharing endorsement faced
by key stakeholders (e.g., owners, transporters, contractors, and inspectors). The research
team also introduced basic blockchain knowledge (e.g., encryption algorithm, consensus
mechanism, distributed ledger) to project representatives and discussed how it might improve
information-sharing endorsement in OAMC. A student residence modular construction
project was selected for the study with the scope of the OAMC phases defined as: (1) the
owner signs an agreement to confirm the start time of the site survey; (2) prefinished modules
and their related detailed information are delivered (i.e., the inputs); (3) external systems are
completed, and relevant inspections are passed; (4) structural towers are completed (the
output).
The second step involved developing a blockchain-based model. Four research meetings were
carried out in January 2021. At the first meeting, the research team identified the stakeholders
involved and confirmed the OAMC information that needed to be endorsed. At the second,
team members brainstormed the model structures by analyzing and synthesizing the literature
and knowledge obtained in the first step. The advantages and disadvantages of solutions were
discussed in the third meeting, based on which the most promising was selected. The process
was non-linear because, as some solutions were feasible but not the most promising, several
comparison iterations were needed to select a promising solution. Finally, for this solution,
the model was proposed and graphed in the fourth meeting.
The third step included the three-phase development and testing of the prototype system.
Firstly, blockchain type was determined by considering the strengths and weaknesses of
public, private, and consortium blockchain (Perera et al., 2020). As Zhong et al. (2020)
pointed out, consortium blockchain can provide complete functions such as authentication,
authorization, and audit of participating members. This blockchain type was chosen as
different parties may have different requirements for information and privacy control in
OAMC. Hyperledger Fabric platform was adopted to develop the consortium blockchain
since it provides developers with diverse security-enhanced alternatives, guidelines, resources
and tools, and is suitable for complex information proof requirements in construction (Li et
al., 2021). Next, a consensus algorithm was selected. Unlike other open consensuses such as
PoW and PoS, CFT avoids cryptocurrency, reducing vital risks/attack vectors and requiring
lower computational energy consumption from cryptographic mining processes (Perera et
al., 2020). CFT is also relatively fast compared with PBFT and, compared with PoW, avoids
crashes and network partitions (Hyperledger Fabric, 2020). It should be noted that these

7

consensus mechanisms are not mutually exclusive, and the proposed model can have
pluggable consensuses supporting different applications or application requirements.

205

210

215

220

225

230

In the next phase, front- and back-end prototypes were developed. The development
environment was Linux version 5.4.0-58-generic-lpae (5.4.0-58.64~18.04.1) (Ubuntu 18.04.1
LTS). The back-end prototype was achieved through SpringBoot (version 2.4) because it is a
Java-based back-end framework for the fast and easy development of database management
systems (MYSQL) and Web servers. AdminLTE was selected for the fast development of
user interfaces as it is a bootstrap-based front-end framework that provides responsive,
reusable, and commonly used components. Hyperledger Fabric Cello was used to provide
members with access to browse the information on the blockchain. Also, JavaScript as an
object-oriented and high-level language was adopted for smart contract writing. In
Hyperledger Fabric, smart contracts are packaged as chaincode, which can automate the
execution processes. Finally, two training workshops were provided for participants to test
the prototype system in the mock-up onsite assembly phase of the surveyed project.
In the fourth step, structured interviews were conducted to reveal reactions and opinions of
the parties involved in the proposed prototype system test. Universally used in social
sciences, the questions and often the answer categories are fully developed and placed in an
interview schedule before the interview begins (Lewis-Beck et al., 2004). The four
procedures suggested by Lewis-Beck et al. (2004) were implemented in the interviews.
Firstly, the questions were asked as they were worded and in the pre-defined order according
to the interview schedule. Secondly, if an interviewee failed to answer the question
completely, follow-up questions were asked. Thirdly, the answers were recorded without
discretion by the interviewer. Fourthly, the interviewer minimized personal judgment and
feedback in order to obtain accurate answers. The interviewees met all three selection criteria.
First, they participated in the blockchain introduction session at the BPA stage to ensure that
they have basic blockchain knowledge. Second, they attended two system training workshops
during the development and testing stage. Third, they were involved in the three testing
scenarios. As a result, four participants from the owner organization, two from the contractor,
one from the transporter, and one from the inspection organization were asked four preworded questions in the same order, as shown in Table 2. The interviewees’ answers were
recorded and transcribed for further analysis.

235

ID
OW1
OW2
OW3
OW4
MC1
MC2

Table 2. Information of interviewees and interview questions
Organization
Position
Working Experience
Owner
Technical Manager
6
Owner
Project Manager
4
Owner
Site Engineer
2
Owner
Site Engineer
2
Main Contractor
Project Controls Manager
4
Main Contractor
Site Engineer
3
8

TR1
Transporter
INS1
Inspector
Interview questions

Logistics Operator
Inspector Manager

4
3

Question 1: What are the advantages of the prototype system?
Question 2: What are the disadvantages of the prototype system?
Question 3: Would you use the prototype system? Why/Why not?
Question 4: Do you have other suggestions to improve the prototype system?

240

Data Analyses, Results, and Findings
Business Process Analysis of Onsite Assembly of Modular Construction
The existing OAMC business process can generally be divided into the 10 main stages shown
in Fig. 2 (Li et al., 2018a; Li et al., 2019c). Stages 2 and 3 can be carried out concurrently, as
can Stages 4 to 5. Onsite assembly is most relevant to Stage 8.

245

Fig. 2. Onsite assembly processes of modular construction

250

As shown in Fig. 2, in Stage 1, the site surveyor inspects the area for the proposed
construction project and collects information for the follow-up works. In Stage 2, the
contractor can establish the site and excavate the land. Procedures for site establishment
include protecting existing structures, boundary removal, clean-up of materials, construction
of temporary accommodation, and connection of services (Li et al., 2018a). In Stage 3,
construction stakeholders can formulate the assembly schedule according to the master plan.

9

Assembly mock-ups can be carried out in Stage 4 while conducting foundation works in
Stage 5.
255

260

265

270

275

The construction works begin in Stage 6 and include temporary work (e.g., placing safety
signs), crane installation (e.g., erecting a tower crane, material and passenger hoists), and
core structure construction (e.g., applying the cast-in-situ method) (Zhai et al., 2019). In
Stage 7, according to the plan, the logistics company transports the prefabricated modules to
the site and, if the site is too congested to accommodate these massive modules, will
temporarily store them in intermediate warehouses nearby. Upon arrival at the construction
site, the site engineer will confirm the type, arrival time, quantity, and quality of the modules
delivered and sign the delivery docket. In Stage 8, modules are assembled onsite after
verification of assembly sequence, module type, installation position, and orientation. Module
assembly follows Stages 8(a) to (g) (see Fig. 2). In Stage 9, utilities and building servicesrelated facilities are installed and connected, including plumbing, drainage, gas, electricity,
lifts, and fire services. In Stage 10, the exterior system is completed, such as the finishing
works (e.g., plastering and painting) for flats, common areas, and external walls.
There are several problems in the OAMC business process. Firstly, accuracy of information
sharing is not guaranteed due to ambiguity of paper-based documentation. Secondly, a
unified OAMC information exchange platform is lacking, resulting in information
asymmetry. Thirdly, the current practice lacks an endorsement mechanism to ensure the
accuracy of the updated information (e.g., assembly sequence, module type, installation
location, and orientation), leading to module misplacement and additional labor and time
costs.
A Blockchain-based Model for Improving Information-sharing Accuracy in Onsite Assembly of Construction
Modules

280

The conceptual model

285

Based on the literature review and BPA, a conceptual model is proposed to explain how
blockchain can be used to improve the accuracy of information shared, as shown in Fig. 3.
The blockchain system functions by (1) allowing the owner, contractor, transporter, and
inspector to endorse OAMC information; and (2) improving information-sharing accuracy by
requiring participants to sign the endorsed information digitally.

10

Fig. 3. Blockchain-based model for improving information-sharing accuracy in the onsite assembly of modular
construction. (a) membership registration; (b) information sharing; (c) ordering service; (d) consenus
290

295

300

mechanism; and (e) decentralized storage.

The proposed conceptual model consists of five components (Fig. 3(a)–(e)). Specifically,
OAMC participants should first register as members of a blockchain-based network (Fig.
3(a)) and share relevant information among participants through the corresponding
applications (user interfaces) (Fig. 3(b)). Defined OAMC information includes transportation,
onsite construction and assembly, and inspection information. Every time information is
shared, the smart contract converts it into a transaction and sends it to the ordering service
through which transactions are packed as blocks (Fig. 3(c)). In the real-life onsite assembly, it
is difficult to verify OAMC information among all stakeholders and also to verify
information changes promptly. To enhance the OAMC information endorsement process, the
proposed model uses a consensus algorithm. The model also requires participants to digitally
sign each transaction when verifying OAMC information, thereby ensuring the completeness
and accuracy of the information (Fig. 3(d)). Each participant configures a copy of the ledger

11

305

to record endorsed transaction information, and the smart contract can invoke the stored
transaction information from the ledgers when the participant requests (Fig. 3(e)).
An operable blockchain-based model

310

315

The components of the proposed model, such as membership registration, information
sharing-request, ordering service, consensus mechanism, and distributed storage, are
described as follows. Before joining the network, participants must verify their identity by
sending a membership registration request to the owner. Those qualified are allocated
Certificate Authorities (CAs) by the owner. Members can provide membership to submembers through their assigned CAs. The proposed model consists of a network with four
registered organizations (members): transporter (T1), contractor (C2), inspector (I3), and
project owner (P0), as shown in Fig. 4. All four organizations have a corresponding CA (1–4)
authorized by the P0 (the P0 authorises its own CA). The network has a configuration, CC1,
which lists the organizations’ definitions. The transporter, contractor and inspector can add
managers as peers (sub-members), named TP1, CP2, and IP3, respectively, to the channel.
Also, peers can add their corresponding operators to share operation information.

320

Fig. 4. Registered members of the blockchain-based network

325

330

An information sharing-request mechanism is employed to drive transaction flow.
Transportation, onsite construction and assembly, and inspection information are shared with
the project owner by peers’ operators through applications A1 (transportation information
sharing user interfaces), A2 (onsite construction and assembly user interfaces), and A3
(inspection information sharing user interfaces), respectively. Transportation information
contains data about the module name and ID, process name and ID, delivery date, quantity
and quality status of modules (before loading, after loading, and on arrival), vehicle and
driver information, location, speed and time records, pick-up time, and signature of the
12

335

340

345

350

355

360

365

person in charge. Onsite construction and assembly information includes data about
construction and assembly operations, while inspection information includes detailed
inspection and quality test results for all control points. For example, before assembling
modules onsite, the contractor’s operators can share module information (e.g., assembly
sequence, module type, installation location, and orientation) with the managers (peers) of the
inspector and owner in the network to verify its correctness. In turn, the owner can request
the module information before assembly, and the corresponding contractor’s operator can
then exchange module information with the owner in the blockchain. Adopting the same
mechanism, the owner can build information sharing-request interactions with the transporter
and inspector.
The model uses an ordering service to build orderly blockchain. In this model, the owner
serves as an ordering node that bundles transactions into new blocks. The ordering node
cannot commit unverified blocks to the blockchain, and only passes ordered and bundled
blocks to peer nodes for endorsement. The peers verify block orders by examining the current
and previous blocks’ hash values.
Peers (organization managers) in the network can verify the completeness and accuracy of
transactions in the blocks they receive through the designed consensus mechanism. If the
transactions are valid, managers can digitally sign them. The model adopts a CFT consensus
algorithm to help managers crosscheck onsite assembly transactions and reach an agreement.
Finally, each manager keeps a copy of the ledger (L1) of the channel where the information
(transactions) is stored. In the proposed model, L1 is assigned to the managers of the
transporter, inspector and contractor (TP1, CP2, and IP3, respectively), and each ledger
comprises two different but related parts: a world state and a blockchain, as shown in Fig. 5.
The ledger world state contains two states, namely key and value. The key provides operation
information categories such as “Transportation”, “Onsite construction”, “Onsite assembly”,
and “Inspection”. The value offers the information content, such as module ID. The second
part, blockchain, is a historical record of how objects arrived at their current states. In the
blockchain, each block has a block header and a set of transactions. The block header consists
of an index (the serial number of the block in the chain), a timestamp, a signature validator,
and the hash values of the current and the previous blocks. The data frame includes a
timestamp, a signature, the hash values of the present and the previous transactions, and a
key–value pair for each transaction. Users can always connect with other peers keeping the
same ledger to restore or update the local ledger copy.

13

Fig. 5. Ledger: (a) world state; (b) blockchain (Adapted from Li et al. (2021))
370

375

In summary, the proposed model has five main information endorsement processes:
membership registration, information sharing-request, ordering service, consensus, and
distributed storage. Together, they can ensure the accuracy of OAMC information. By
requesting the status of any OAMC process, the project owner can achieve better information
endorsement and make more effective decisions.
Smart contract configurations

380

385

The business logic that defines how peers interact with the ledgers is contained in smart
contracts. In the proposed model, chaincode (S5) is installed on TP1, CP2, and IP3. S5
contains two smart contracts, one used for the information sharing-request mechanism, and
the other used for block ordering and endorsement. Table 3(a) shows the smart contract
algorithm used for the information sharing-request interaction between the owner and the
contractor’s operator. The owner can request the module information during the onsite
assembly process in the blockchain using a hash value as a start signal. The smart contract
will ask the contractor’s operator to upload the requested transaction information through
user interfaces and exchange transaction information with the owner through the blockchain.
14

It can also help realize the information sharing-request interactions between the owner and
the transporter’s and the inspector’s operators.
390

Table 3. Smart contract algorithms: (a) information sharing-request; (b) ordering and endorsement
(a) Algorithm Information Sharing-Request
Input: Requested hash value
Output: Published transactions
Step A1: Require the operation data of on-site assembly by sending a hash value signal
Project owner.get (hash)
Hash → Contractor operator
Step A2: After the 1st operation finished, transfer the operation to data (operation, completion time)
Assembly operation → Data ()
Completion time → Data ()
Step A3: Prdocuce a transaction in the blockchain
Transaction.hash ← SHA256 (Data)
Transaction.prehash ← Hash
Transaction.signature ← Operator.signature ()
Step A4: Publish transaction to the project owner
Transaction → Project owner
End
(b) Algorithm Block Ordering and Endorsement
Input: Transactions
Output: Blockchain
// Step B1: Owner recevies and orders transactions
Project owner.get (transaction)
// Step B2: Project owner receives assembly operation data from the contractor operator
Project owner.get (Data)
// Step B3: Project owner packs blocks and endorses the data correctness
Project owner.packblock (header, transaction)
If SHA 256 (Data) != transaction.hash
Return False
// Step B4: Project owner delivers the block to peers
Block → Transporter manager
Block → Contractor manager
Block → Inspector manager
// Step B5: Each peer endorsed the block with digital signature
If Block.transporter manager_signature.error() OR Block.contractor manager_signature. error() OR
Block.inspector manager_signature.error()
Return False
else
Project owner.signature (Block)
// Step B6: Project owner updates the endorsed block to the ledger
Block → Blockchain
End

395

Table 3(b) demonstrates the smart contract algorithm for block ordering and endorsement.
This example shows that smart contracts are configured to self-collect transactions published
by the contractor’s operator and then deliver them to the ordering node (the owner) for
bundling into blocks. Next, smart contracts can deliver the blocks to peers for verification.
After the blocks are endorsed and signed, smart contracts can commit these blocks to the
ledgers.
15

400

405

Development and Testing
Prototype system development
Based on the surveyed modular construction project, a prototype system was developed to
implement OAMC information endorsement. In the prototype system, there are four
organizations: the owner (acting as the ordering node in the ordering service), the transporter,
the contractor, and the inspector. Their configuration information is shown in Fig. 6(a). The
cryptogen in Hyperledger Fabric was used to facilitate sub-member registration (e.g., peers
and operators) through certificates in order to control access (Fig. 6(b)).

Fig. 6. System configurations: (a) organization registrations; (b) certificates
410

415

Through the developed applications (user interfaces) of the prototype, participants such as the
contractor’s operators can request other organizations’ managers (peers) to endorse OAMC
information. For example, before starting module installation, the operator of the contractor
can ask the managers of the owner and inspector to verify the assembly sequence, module
type, installation location, and module orientation, as shown in Fig. 7(a). The operators of the
transporter and inspector have the same interfaces for submitting information endorsement
requests. The endorsement request is converted into a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) file
16

420

using the JSON form plug-in. The file is hashed, and the smart contract sends the file to the
ordering service. By setting the owner as an orderer in the network, the ordering service is
initialized. Next, the CFT consensus mechanism is implemented based on the etcd library in
Hyperledger Fabric. The correctness of the information can be established by reaching a
consensus among members, and then the verified file is committed to the managers’ ledger
copies as the latest blocks. For example, the owner can verify the module information
through the manager interface before the installation starts, as shown in Fig. 7(b).

425

Fig. 7. User interfaces: (a) contractor’s interface for submitting endorsement request; (b) project owner’s
interface for requesting past transactions
17

430

435

System testing and evaluating

Testing was undertaken by the owner, the transporter, the contractor, and the inspector to
demonstrate that the developed model operates as intended. In the test, eight modules (four
different types) were delivered to the site in two batches (see Fig. 8(a)). Then, according to
the module ID (see Fig. 8(b)), eight modules were installed in the predetermined locations
(see Fig. 8(c)) of the construction site to complete the mock-up assembly task of the
investigated student residence project.

Fig. 8. Mock-up onsite assembly of the surveyed project: (a) module type; (b) module ID; (c) mock-up plan
440

Test scenarios

445

450

Three test scenarios were used to test the performance of OAMC information endorsement
processes, as shown in Fig. 9. In the first scenario, the transporter plans to deliver modules
from the factory to the construction site (see Fig. 9(a)). The transporter’s operator sends out
the request through the user interface to the managers (peers) of contractor, inspector, and
owner to verify the quantity, quality, and type of the delivered modules. Each endorsement
request is recorded as a new transaction, hashed, and uploaded to the blockchain. Once the
contractor’s and inspector’s managers receive the new transactions, they verify the hash
values of the transactions. If their digital signatures match the signature of the hash value,
these managers can decrypt the transactions and verify the transaction information according

18

to the delivered modules. Then, the owner packs the transactions into a new block and adds
the block to the blockchain. Each block generation is endorsed through the CFT consensus.

455

Fig. 9. Test scenarios: (a) module arriving; (b) pre-installation; (c) post-installation

460

465

470

In the second scenario, the operators of the contractor plan to install modules on the
construction site (see Fig. 9(b)). The operator of the contractor sends out the request through
the user interface to the managers of the inspector and the owner to verify the assembly
sequence, type, location, and orientation of the modules before assembly starts. The managers
of both the owner and the inspector crosscheck the transaction information with the assembly
plan and endorse the transactions through digital signatures. After installation, in the third
scenario, the inspector’s operator inspects installed modules on the construction site (see Fig.
9(c)). The inspector’s operator sends out the request through the user interface to the
managers of the contractor and the owner to endorse the information about installed modules
such as type, location, and orientation. Similarly, the managers of the contractor and the
owner crosscheck the transaction information with their assembly operations records and
verify the transactions through digital signatures. In all case scenarios, any shared
information in the system was endorsed by the designated managers of the corresponding
organizations to ensure its accuracy.
19

Interview results

475

480

Participants answered four interview questions after using the prototype system in the test.
The responses are summarized in Table 4. In response to the first question on the advantages
of the prototype system, all eight interviewees mentioned the potential of the prototype
system to improve accuracy of information sharing. Three mentioned elimination or
reduction of assembly rework issues. One participant from the contractor organization
identified reduced labor costs due to reduced likelihood of re-installation. Three interviewees
mentioned improved project performance. In addition, enhanced trust relationships among
participants and increased motivation were mentioned as advantages of the prototype system
by owner organization interviewees.
Table 4. Responses from interviewees
Interviewee Response
Question 1: What are the advantages of the prototype system?
OW1
Enables a system for accurate and timely information sharing
OW2
May minimize inaccurate information sharing, which could decrease the
chance of misplacement of modules
The system improves onsite assembly performance in the project.
OW3
May minimize asymmetrical information exchange, which could improve the
trust relationships among participants
OW4
Getting accurate information for the onsite assembly of modules will increase
the motivation of the contractor.
MC1
Accurate information sharing may minimize onsite assembly rework issues,
which could decrease labor costs for the contractor.
MC2
Would improve information flow and minimize module displacement
TR1
Enables accurate information sharing with project participants
Would improve project performance
INS1
When assembly information is shared accurately, project performance could
improve substantially.
Question 2: What are the disadvantages of the prototype system?
OW1
The system may incur additional development and maintenance costs for all
parties
Without a mature legal infrastructure, I think the system cannot be widely used
in current modular construction projects.
OW2
If there are loopholes in the smart contract, the security of the blockchain
network cannot be guaranteed.
OW3
The system will bring additional training costs to all parties.
OW4
Compared with the existing process, the system takes extra time for relevant
parties to endorse the information through digital signatures.
MC1
If the scale of the project is large, the endorsement process will take too long.
MC2
I think we have to bear the cost of the system.
TR1
The endorsers have the opportunity to disclose project information (I know this
is a very low probability event, but the impact is very high).
INS1
If the cost is too high, I don’t think the participants will accept it.
Question 3: Would you use the prototype system? Why/Why not?
OW1
I am not sure, maybe after the legal infrastructure for the system is ready.
OW2
Yes, as it could improve the accuracy of information sharing and reduce reinstallation issues.
OW3
Yes, we have inaccurate information sharing all the time. The system would
improve the current asymmetrical information-sharing issue.
20

Category
1
1, 2
4
1, 5
1, 6
1, 2, 3
1, 2
1
4
1, 4

7
8
10
7
9
9
7
11
7
Conditionally
Yes
Yes

OW4

Yes, I would. The system could motivate all to achieve accurate information
sharing for efficient OAMC.
MC1
No. The information endorsement process is time-consuming and privacy
issues may occur.
MC2
If the cost is known, I would use the system.
TR1
Definitely, yes.
INS1
Yes I would, but the cost has to be low.
Question 4: Do you have other suggestions to improve the prototype system?
OW1
The system can be linked with BIM to assist the information endorsement.
OW2
The system should provide mobile-based applications to make it easier for
participants to use.
OW3
I recommend testing the system in more projects to ensure its scalability.
OW4
The total cost of the system should be determined before its actual
implementation.
MC1
I suggest sending text messages to participants to remind them to endorse the
information.
MC2
I suggest a rough cost estimate for the system.
TR1
I do not have any suggestions.
INS1
The system should be tested in different projects to determine cost.

Yes
No
Conditionally
Yes
Conditionally
12
13
14
7
15
7
7

485

490

495

500

505

Responses to the second question on disadvantages of the prototype system are summarized
in Table 4. Four interviewees mentioned additional costs for users such as development,
maintenance, and training costs. One interviewee from owner organization mentioned lack of
legal infrastructure as a disadvantage. An interviewees from the owner and contractor
organizations referred to the relatively long time taken for users to endorse the information.
Cybersecurity of blockchain and privacy were highlighted as a disadvantage by one
interviewee from the owner organization and one from transporter organization, respectively.
In response to the third question about the users’ willingness to use the prototype system, four
interviewees said they would use the system without condition. One (from the contractor
organization) opposed using the system because it may be time-consuming for large projects
and present privacy issues. One interviewee from the contractor and the inspector
organization stated that they would only use the system if the cost was low. One interviewee
(from the owner organization) said he might use it after the required legal infrastructure is
ready.
Interviewees made suggestions in response to the fourth question. Three interviewees
suggested that the system cost should be determined before implementation. Interviewees
from the owner organization suggested connecting the system with BIM to assist in
information endorsement and developing mobile-based applications for the convenience of
users. An owner organization interviewee also suggested testing the scalability of the system
in more projects, while an interviewee from the contractor organization said that the system
should be able to send text messages to participants reminding them to endorse information.

510

21

515

520

525

530

535

Discussion and Limitations
The scientific contribution of this study is summarized as follows. First, this research
explores how blockchain technology can improve the accuracy of information sharing for
OAMC. In a previous study (Lee et al., 2021a), blockchain was used to share and endorse
virtual positioning information of prefabricated bricks. However, the potential of the
consensus mechanism (CFT) in improving the accuracy of information sharing in OAMC has
not been evaluated in an empirical study. Here, a conceptual model is presented for the
application of blockchain technology in OAMC information endorsement. In the proposed
model, the assembly information of each module is shared in a transparent way and endorsed
by relevant parties before release, reducing the likelihood of disputes and bringing about a
decline in assembly reworks. The Hyperledger Fabric-based prototype system shows the
feasibility of the proposed model. Thus, this study may provide construction stakeholders
with an innovative tool for information endorsement in OAMC. In addition, it can enhance
stakeholders’ understanding of the benefits of blockchain, which is an essential factor in the
adoption of blockchain in actual modular construction projects. For practical
implementations, configurable network components of the prototype system should be finetuned in terms of software (e.g., the endorsement policy) and hardware (e.g., CPU speed)
aspects.
Second, the opinions of test participants on the use of the consensus mechanism of
blockchain in OAMC for information endorsement are presented in detail, with advantages
and disadvantages of the prototype system and user attitudes and suggestions summarized
through structured interviews. Such analysis can facilitate understanding of barriers to the
adoption of blockchain. Most importantly, since it is not feasible to address all the
disadvantages and implement the suggestions simultaneously, understanding the actual user
opinions of the prototype system can help to increase research attention and facilitate actual
implementation of blockchain. The interview results can be reused to evaluate critical barriers
with quantitative analysis methods like the decision-making trial and evaluation laboratory
methods.

540

545

Third, the model provides a valuable reference for policy design of blockchain governance in
construction, including relevant regulations, laws, policies, and standards. Policymakers can
simulate information endorsement scenarios by using or further developing the prototype
system. The proposed model is an adaptive structure that can expand in scope to facilitate
supply chain management in construction projects and to include other participants, such as
governmental supervision units, material suppliers, and manufacturers and subcontractors.
Despite these advantages, this study still has limitations. First, the operation transactions
recorded onto the blockchain are manually input by humans. Manual operations may limit
22

550

555

560

565

570

575

580

585

information sharing efficiency and introduce opportunistic behaviors (uploading tampered
assembly information). Lee et al. (2021a) developed and tested an integrated digital twin and
blockchain framework. The digital twin uses IoT sensors to update the BIM in near real-time,
while the blockchain authenticates all transactions of the digital twin. Random errors and
noise generated from IoT sensors can still result in a single point of failure for IoT networks,
reducing data quality for BIM and negatively affecting the trustworthiness of the system. A
recent study conducted by Lu et al. (2021b) explored smart construction objects (SCOs) as
blockchain oracles to provide a data authenticity mechanism. Thus, future research can
integrate the proposed model with BIM and the SCO-enabled blockchain oracles and test it in
real-life projects. Second, the configured smart contracts have only been used for information
exchange and block ordering services in the prototype system. Hamledari and Fischer (2020)
and Das et al. (2020) adopted smart contracts to improve the certainty of construction
contract payments. Therefore, future research can explore the combined application of the
proposed model and smart contracts. Advanced technologies such as GIS (geographic
information system) and 5G can also be integrated with the model to add more intelligence
and autonomy to the OAMC management. Third, this study does not run a cost evaluation of
running such a system, since the test scenario is limited to the mock-up stage of a modular
construction project. Pradeep et al. (2021) suggested that cost and benefit analysis could be
the next logical step when more empirical data is available. Fourth, only one pilot case study
was carried out. Thus, testing results can only be perceived as a proof of concept of the
model, rather than a final version for benchmarking performance or proof of compatibility to
other OAMC projects. Future works are recommended to fine-tune the platform and test and
evaluate it in other OAMC projects.
Conclusions
Successful delivery of onsite assembly in a modular construction (OAMC) project requires
efficient communication and coordination by numerous stakeholders, who interact closely
based on an array of information. However, sharing of inaccurate information may occur
during OAMC, primarily owing to the widespread adoption of paper or paint labels,
fragmented project-based organizations, and lack of information consensus mechanism. This
study aimed to explore the use of blockchain technology to improve the situation of
inaccurate information sharing in OAMC, starting with a theoretical exploration of how
blockchain can truly help.
This study developed a blockchain-based model for modular construction to improve the
accuracy of information sharing for OAMC. The proposed model was developed using a
design science research (DSR) strategy to help project participants to endorse shared OAMC
information. The model realizes information sharing endorsement processes via membership
registration, information sharing-request, ordering service, consensus mechanism, and

23

590

595

600

605

610

distributed storage. After that, a prototype system was designed to demonstrate the proposed
blockchain-based model. The three key OAMC processes of arriving, pre-installation, and
post-installation verification, are included to test the prototype system in the mock-up on-site
assembly phase of a modular construction project. Finally, structured interviews were
conducted with test participants to discover their opinions on the prototype system. The
results show that the proposed model can improve the accuracy of information sharing for
OAMC by allowing project participants to endorse information about the modules and their
operations through the consensus mechanism, thereby reducing the possibility of onsite
assembly reworks.
The limitations of this research provide opportunities for future research. One potential
research direction is the blockchain “oracles” that connect the off-chain and on-chain world.
For example, researchers can explore the use of decentralized smart construction objects to
protect data uploaded to BIM and blockchain. In addition, future research can focus on the
scalability evaluation of the proposed prototype system and its integration with smart contract
payment, GIS, and 5G technologies. When more empirical data become available, the cost of
the proposed system should be investigated in depth. Finally, the proposed model may extend
to industries beyond the construction industry.
Data Statement
Some or all data, models, or code that support the findings of this study are available from the
corresponding author upon reasonable request.
Acknowledgments
This work is funded by the Hong Kong Innovation and Technology Fund (ITF) (Project No.:
ITP/029/20LP).

615

620

References
Chen, P. W., Jiang, B. S., and Wang, C. H. (2017). “Blockchain-based payment collection
supervision system using pervasive Bitcoin digital wallet.” 2017 IEEE 13th
International Conference on Wireless and Mobile Computing, Networking and
Communications (139-146). IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/WiMOB.2017.8115844.
Das, M., Luo, H., and Cheng, J. C. (2020). “Securing interim payments in construction
projects through a blockchain-based framework.” Automation in Construction, 118,
103284. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2020.103284.

625

Dounas, T., and Lombardi, D. (2018). “A CAD-Blockchain Integration Strategy for
Distributed Validated Digital Design”, In 36th International Conference on Education
and Research in Computer Aided Architectural Design in Europe (Vol. 1, 223-230).
eCAADe. http://papers.cumincad. org/data/works/att/ecaade2018_226.pdf.

24

630

635

Diallo, N., Shi, W., Xu, L., Gao, Z., Chen, L., Lu, Y., ... and Turner, G. (2018). “eGov-DAO:
A better government using blockchain based decentralized autonomous organization.”
2018 International Conference on eDemocracy & eGovernment ( 166-171). IEEE.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICEDEG.2018.8372356.
Demiralp, G., Guven, G., and Ergen, E. (2012). “Analyzing the benefits of RFID technology
for cost sharing in construction supply chains: A case study on prefabricated precast
components.” Automation in Construction, 24, 120-129.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2012.02.005.
Elghaish, F., Hosseini, M. R., Matarneh, S., Talebi, S., Wu, S., Martek, I., ... & Ghodrati, N.
(2021). Blockchain and the ‘Internet of Things' for the construction industry: research
trends and opportunities. Automation in Construction, 132, 103942.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103942.

640

645

Gong, P., Teng, Y., Li, X., and Luo, L. (2019). “Modeling constraints for the on-site
assembly process of prefabrication housing production: a social network analysis.”
Sustainability, 11(5), 1387.
Heiskanen, A. (2017). “The technology of trust: How the Internet of Things and blockchain
could usher in a new era of construction productivity.” Construction Research and
Innovation, 8(2), 66-70. https://doi.org/10.1080/20450249.2017.1337349.
Hasan, H. R., and Salah, K. (2018). “Proof of delivery of digital assets using blockchain and
smart contracts.” IEEE Access, 6, 65439-65448.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2876971.

650

655

Hamledari, H., and Fischer, M. (2021). “The application of blockchain-based crypto assets
for integrating the physical and financial supply chains in the construction &
engineering industry.” Automation in Construction, 127, 103711.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103711.
Hunhevicz, J. J., and Hall, D. M. (2020). “Do you need a blockchain in construction? Use
case categories and decision framework for DLT design options.” Advanced
Engineering Informatics, 45, 101094. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2020.101094.
Hyperledger Fabric. (2020). “Glossary.” Accessed April 15, 2020. https://hyperledgerfabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.htm.

660

Huang, S., Wang, G., Yan, Y., and Fang, X. (2020). “Blockchain-based data management for
digital twin of product.” Journal of Manufacturing Systems, 54, 361-371.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmsy.2020.01.009.

665

Hijazi, A. A., Perera, S., Calheiros, R. N., and Alashwal, A. (2021). “Rationale for the
integration of BIM and blockchain for the construction supply chain data delivery: A
systematic literature review and validation through focus group.” Journal of
Construction Engineering and Management, 147(10), 03121005.
https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)CO.1943-7862.0002142.
Kuhn, M., Funk, F., and Franke, J. (2021). “Blockchain architecture for automotive
traceability.” Procedia CIRP, 97, 390-395. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2020.05.256.

670

Lee, D., Lee, S. H., Masoud, N., Krishnan, M. S., and Li, V. C. (2021a). “Integrated digital
twin and blockchain framework to support accountable information sharing in
construction projects.” Automation in Construction, 127, 103688.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103688.

25

Lee, D., and Lee, S. (2021b). “Digital Twin for Supply Chain Coordination in Modular
Construction.” Applied Sciences, 11(13), 5909. https://doi.org/10.3390/app11135909.
675

Lewis-Beck, M., Bryman, A. E., and Liao, T. F. (2004). The Sage encyclopedia of social
science research methods. Sage Publications. http://dx.doi.org/10.4135/9781412950589.
Li, C. Z., Xue, F., Li, X., Hong, J., and Shen, G. Q. (2018a). “An Internet of Things-enabled
BIM platform for on-site assembly services in prefabricated construction.” Automation
in Construction, 89, 146-161. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2018.01.001.

680

Li, X., Shen, G. Q., Wu, P., Fan, H., Wu, H., and Teng, Y. (2018b). “RBL-PHP: Simulation
of lean construction and information technologies for prefabrication housing
production.” Journal of Management in Engineering, 34(2), 04017053.
https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)ME.1943-5479.0000577.
Li, X., Shen, G. Q., Wu, P., and Yue, T. (2019a). “Integrating building information modeling
and prefabrication housing production.” Automation in Construction, 100, 46-60.

685

690

Li, J., Greenwood, D., and Kassem, M. (2019b). “Blockchain in the built environment and
construction industry: A systematic review, conceptual models and practical use cases.”
Automation in Construction, 102, 288-307. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2019.02.005.
Li, X., Wu, C., Wu, P., Xiang, L., Shen, G. Q., Vick, S., and Li, C. Z. (2019c). “SWPenabled constraints modeling for on-site assembly process of prefabrication housing
production.” Journal of Cleaner Production, 239, 117991.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.117991.
Li, X., Wu, L., Zhao, R., Lu, W., and Xue, F. (2021). “Two-layer Adaptive Blockchain-based
Supervision model for off-site modular housing production.” Computers in Industry,
128, 103437. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2021.103437.

695

700

Li, J., and Kassem, M. (2021). “Applications of distributed ledger technology (DLT) and
Blockchain-enabled smart contracts in construction.” Automation in Construction, 132,
103955. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103955.
Lu, W., Wu, L., Zhao, R., Li, X., and Xue, F. (2021a). “Blockchain Technology for
Governmental Supervision of Construction Work: Learning from Digital Currency
Electronic Payment Systems.” Journal of Construction Engineering and Management,
147(10), 04021122. https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)CO.1943-7862.0002148.
Lu, W., Li, X., Xue, F., Zhao, R., Wu, L., and Yeh, A. G. (2021b). “Exploring smart
construction objects as blockchain oracles in construction supply chain management.”
Automation in Construction, 129, 103816. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103816.

705

710

Luo, L., Jin, X., Shen, G. Q., Wang, Y., Liang, X., Li, X., and Li, C. Z. (2020). “Supply chain
management for prefabricated building projects in Hong Kong.” Journal of
Management in Engineering, 36(2), 05020001. https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)ME.19435479.0000739.
Mondragon, A. E. C., Mondragon, C. E. C., and Coronado, E. S. (2018). “Exploring the
applicability of blockchain technology to enhance manufacturing supply chains in the
composite materials industry.” In 2018 IEEE International conference on applied
system invention (ICASI) ( 1300-1303). IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICASI.2018.8394531.
Perera, S., Nanayakkara, S., Rodrigo, M. N. N., Senaratne, S., and Weinand, R. (2020).
“Blockchain technology: Is it hype or real in the construction industry?.” Journal of

26

715

Industrial Information Integration, 17, 100125.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jii.2020.100125.
Pradeep, A. S. E., Yiu, T. W., Zou, Y., and Amor, R. (2021). “Blockchain-aided information
exchange records for design liability control and improved security.” Automation in
Construction, 126, 103667. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103667.

720

725

Pop, C., Cioara, T., Antal, M., Anghel, I., Salomie, I., and Bertoncini, M. (2018).
“Blockchain based decentralized management of demand response programs in smart
energy grids.” Sensors, 18(1), 162. https://doi.org/10.3390/s18010162.
Ravishankr, B., Shailaja, V. N., and Appaiah, M. (2020). “The Study of Blockchain
Technology in Engineering Development: The Case of the Clutch Lever Assembly.” In
2020 International Conference on Mainstreaming Block Chain Implementation
(ICOMBI) (pp. 1-4). IEEE. https://doi.org/10.23919/ICOMBI48604.2020.9203079.
Sheng, D., Ding, L., Zhong, B., Love, P. E., Luo, H., and Chen, J. (2020). “Construction
quality information management with blockchain.” Automation in Construction, 120,
103373. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2020.103373.

730

735

740

745

Sirisha, N. S., Agarwal, T., Monde, R., Yadav, R., and Hande, R. (2019). “Proposed solution
for trackable donations using blockchain.” In 2019 International Conference on
Nascent Technologies in Engineering (ICNTE) ( 1-5). IEEE.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICNTE44896.2019.8946019.
Tezel, A., Febrero, P., Papadonikolaki, E., and Yitmen, I. (2021). “Insights into Blockchain
Implementation in Construction: Models for Supply Chain Management.” Journal of
Management in Engineering, 37(4), 04021038. https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)ME.19435479.0000939.
Tao, X., Das, M., Liu, Y., and Cheng, J. C. (2021). “Distributed common data environment
using blockchain and Interplanetary File System for secure BIM-based collaborative
design.” Automation in Construction, 130, 103851.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103851.
Wang, Z., Wang, T., Hu, H., Gong, J., Ren, X., and Xiao, Q. (2020). “Blockchain-based
framework for improving supply chain traceability and information sharing in precast
construction.” Automation in Construction, 111, 103063.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2019.103063.
Wang, G., Zhang, H., Xiao, B., Chung, Y. C., and Cai, W. (2019). “EduBloud: A blockchainbased education cloud.” 2019 Computing, Communications and IoT Applications ( 352357). IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/ComComAp46287.2019.9018818.

750

Wu, H., Zhong, B., Li, H., Guo, J., and Wang, Y. (2021). “On-Site Construction Quality
Inspection Using Blockchain and Smart Contracts.” Journal of Management in
Engineering, 37(6), 04021065. https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)ME.1943-5479.0000967.
Xue, F. and Lu, W. (2020). “A semantic differential transaction approach to minimizing
information redundancy for BIM and blockchain integration.” Automation in
Construction, 118, 103270. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2020.103270.

755

Xue, F., Wu, L., and Lu, W. (2021). “Semantic enrichment of building and city information
models: A ten-year review.” Advanced Engineering Informatics, 47, 101245.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2020.101245.

27

760

Yang, R., Wakefield, R., Lyu, S., Jayasuriya, S., Han, F., Yi, X., ... and Chen, S. (2020).
“Public and private blockchain in construction business process and information
integration.” Automation in Construction, 118, 103276.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2020.103276.
Zhang, Z., Yuan, Z., Ni, G., Lin, H., and Lu, Y. (2020). “The quality traceability system for
prefabricated buildings using blockchain: An integrated framework.” Frontiers of
Engineering Management, 1-19. https://doi.org/10.1007/s42524-020-0127-z.

765

770

775

Zhong, B., Wu, H., Ding, L., Luo, H., Luo, Y., and Pan, X. (2020). “Hyperledger fabricbased consortium blockchain for construction quality information management.”
Frontiers of Engineering Management, 1-16. https://doi.org/10.1007/s42524-020-0128-y.
Zhou, J. X., Shen, G. Q., Yoon, S. H., and Jin, X. (2021). “Customization of on-site assembly
services by integrating the internet of things and BIM technologies in modular
integrated construction.” Automation in Construction, 126, 103663.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103663.
Zhai, Y., Chen, K., Zhou, J. X., Cao, J., Lyu, Z., Jin, X., ... and Huang, G. Q. (2019). “An
Internet of Things-enabled BIM platform for modular integrated construction: A case
study in Hong Kong.” Advanced Engineering Informatics, 42, 100997.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2019.100997.

28

