3D point cloud data enabled facility management: A critical review
Jinying Xu 1, Ke Chen 2, Fan Xue 3, Weisheng Lu 4*
This is the pre-print version of the paper:
Xu, J., Chen, K., Xue, F., & Lu, W. (2018). 3D point cloud data enabled
facility management: A critical review. In F. Long et al. (Eds.): CRIOCM
2018,Proceedings of the 23rd International Symposiumon Advancement of
Construction Management and Real Estate, pp. 641–657. Springer. Doi:
10.1007/978-981-15-3977-0_49
The full version is available at: http://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-3977-0_49
Abstract: Although the value of 3D point cloud data (PCD) has been increasingly
recognized by the architectural, engineering, construction and facility operations (AECO) sectors,
there is much less actual application of PCD in facility management (FM) than other stages. In
order to facilitate the exploration of using PCD for FM, this study aims to summarize existing
research effort and identify the gaps based on a systematic review of previous studies touching
upon the PCD-enabled FM. This review was guided by a conceptual model that consists of four
key components associated with PCD application process, including target objects, PCD sensing,
model output and applications. 47 papers published in 21 academic journals were collected for the
analysis. It was found that Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR), photogrammetry, and Synthetic
Aperture Radar (SAR) were the three mostly used technologies for collecting the PCD. The raw
signals, such as fragments of point cloud and photos, collected by these technologies need to be
pre-processed for generating the PCD, and segmentation and meshing are two general aspects of
PCD post-processing to create models. It was also found that most studies focused on geometric
properties, data processing, feature extraction, object recognition, and model generation, seldom
would they dig deeper for decision-making support of FM applications. Based on the results, three
major gaps of PCD-enabled FM were concluded, including (1) overlooking the valuable
non-geometric properties (e.g. specifications of materials, relations between objects); (2) less
focusing on providing decision support functions; and (3) hovering at data level rather than
information level. Eleven possible research directions including semantics enrichment, real-time
model generation, longitudinal analysis, and smart living applications of PCD-enabled FM were
thus suggested for future research.
Keywords: Point cloud data; facility management; decision support; as-built modeling; semantics.
Jinying Xu
Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China

1

Ke Chen
Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China

2

3 Fan Xue

Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China
4* Weisheng Lu

Corresponding author, Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China
E-mail: wilsonlu@hku.hk

1 Introduction
Nowadays, with the increasing affordability of obtaining accurate 3D point clouds data (PCD) by
Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR), Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) and photogrammetry,
PCD has been widely used as digitalized representations of buildings[1] and infrastructure. Many
studies in computer vision, remote sensing, and AEC have adopted PCD for 3D building and city
model generation and 3D Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation. Typical applications of
PCD in the construction industry include object recognition[2], building information modeling
(BIM)[3], progress tracking[4], safety assessment[5], quality control and management[6], site activity
monitoring[7], and energy performance modeling[8], most of which are at the construction stage[9].
In contrast, research on the use of PCD in facility management (FM) is not as intensive as
that in other project phases. FM is a profession that encompasses multiple disciplines to ensure
functionality of the built environment by integrating people, place, process, and technology[10].
FM covers a wide range of operation and maintenance services and is directly connected with the
success of the facilities and their relevant business[11]. All these services required the accurate,
real-time information, which can be retrieved from PCD. However, current applications of PCD in
FM is rather limited. In order to allow future exploration on PCD-enabled FM to proceed on a
more solid foundation, it is necessary to summarize the existing efforts and identify the gaps.
The aim of this paper, therefore, is to revisit the PCD-enabled FM. In this paper, the
PCD-enabled FM is conceptualized into a closed loop of processes, i.e., (1) object property
measurement, (2) PCD sensing and processing, (3) model supported decision-making, and (4)
applications in object-based FM. Each process is extensively reviewed based on the existing
literature. As a result, the limitations of current PCD-enabled FM studies are concluded and future
research directions are recommended.
The remainder of the following parts is: A summary of the research method is presented in
Section 2. Section 3 shows the analytical results of the systematic review. Section 4 discusses the
limitations of current research and suggests future research directions. Finally, the conclusion is
given in Section 5.

2 Research method
To investigate the PCD-enabled FM, a preliminary search in Elsevier Scopus Database was
conducted on March 13, 2018. Scopus is one of the biggest databases of research publications
with access to more than 12000 journals[ 12 ]. The search conditions were setup as
(TITLE-ABS-KEY ("point cloud") AND TITLE-ABS-KEY (facility OR operation)) AND (LIMIT-TO
(DOCTYPE, "ar" )) AND (LIMIT-TO (SRCTYPE, "j" )), Which means the searched results must
contain “point cloud” and at least one of “facility” and “operation” in the title, abstract or
keywords of journal articles. There were only 25 results returned. Based on their titles and
abstracts, only 5 were identified as relevant to civil engineering and construction domains. Using a
snow-ball search, i.e., checking their reference and the authors’ other publications not in the prior
searched results manually, another 42 articles were found based on the first-identified 5 papers.
All the 47 articles are screened by the authors to ensure that they are closely related to
PCD-enabled FM. A list of the journals of the selected articles is shown in Table 1.

Table 1. Source of the selected articles
Journal Title

No.

Journal Title

No.

Automation in Construction

14

Structural Survey

1

Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering

8

Structural Control and Health Monitoring

1

Sensors

3

Surveying and Built Environment

1

Advanced Engineering Informatics

2

Journal of Surveying Engineering

1

Computers, Environment and Urban Systems

2

Remote Sensing

1

Construction and Building Materials

2

Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory

1

Computer-Aided Civil and Infrastructure
Engineering
Mediterranean Archaeology and Archaeometry
International Journal of Automation and
Computing
Open Construction and Building Technology
Journal
Journal of Civil Engineering and Management

2
1
1
1

Digital Applications in Archaeology and
Cultural Heritage
IEEE Journal on Selected Topics in Signal
Processing
Electronic Journal of Information
Technology in Construction
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and
Remote Sensing

1
1
1
1

1

As shown in Table 1, the 47 articles were collected from 21 journals, among which 14
journals published only one relevant paper. Automation in Construction and Journal of Computing
in Civil Engineering are the top two journals publishing PCD-enabled FM research. Figure 1
shows the yearly distribution of the selected articles. As shown in Figure 1, the combination of
FM and PCD started around 2006 as far as we concerned and it is still in an early stage. However,
the publication number remained at a very low level until 2013 and achieved a peak in 2014. The
overall number was steady and relevant research continued to be active after 2014. What lies
behind this development trend is the fact that the affordable price and the popularization of remote
sensing equipment in the 2010s made it possible to widely apply this technology. Another possible
reason was the fever of digitalizing everything from the 2010s. Even though, the publication
number of PCD-enabled FM was much less than that of PCD-enabled construction applications [9].

Figure 1. Yearly distribution of selected articles

A conceptual model is proposed to guide the analysis of the collected articles (Figure 2). The
four blocks in different color in Figure 2 signify the four important nodes of the information flow
while the arrows speak for the processes of data/information handling. The dashed arrows

represent the links between the physical and cyber systems. The ‘Object’ block includes the target
human beings and facilities. The properties of an object comprise its geometrical and
non-geometric features. PCD sensing is the process of data acquiring with equipment such as laser
scanners or digital cameras. Processing the obtained PCD to recognize objects and generate 3D
models is the field where the majority research concentrates. This step is crucial because it
transforms massive and noisy signal data to valuable information. With data processing, the
isolated PCD sets will be ready to fabricate a semantically rich model for decision support.
Moreover, PCD and the generated model have the potential to monitor target facilities and protect
human beings. This model and its elements, procedures and approaches as well as the logic behind
the closed loop are further elaborated in the next section.

Figure 2. The conceptual model beneath PCD-enabled FM research

3 PCD-enabled FM research
As shown in Figure 2, the information in PCD-enabled FM research flows from the object to PCD,
then to a PCD generated model and finally from a model supported application to the object,
which forms a closed loop. The basis of this cycle is the data collected from objects, the target of
FM. However, data not transformed to information is just a pile of loose sand, only when
converted to information which can support decision-making, does the PCD data become the solid
foundation of FM applications. The information is valuable only when it consists of one or more
well-formed data that are meaningful[13] by providing the details of ‘who’, ‘what’, ‘where’, and
‘when’ (4Ws), i.e., tell end-users what is happening to who at which place at an exact time. The
4Ws, the essence of information, are directly concerned with the decision-making. In this section,
the properties of objects that can be recorded by PCD, the PCD sensing and processing
approaches, the output of the PCD and how to use them in FM applications will be thoroughly
concluded, and the research gaps will be revealed.

3.1 Object properties
Objects are the cells of facilities which facilitate the function of a convenience or service.
Facilities have an all-encompassing scope, ranging from physical ones, such as transport facilities,
medical facilities and telecommunication facilities, to spiritual ones like cultural facilities and
correctional facilities. Therefore, there are myriads of objects in these facilities, varying from as
big as walls, roofs, highways to as small as bulbs, bolts and sockets. When researchers talk about
facility management, they typically refer to the physical facilities, for instance, transportation
infrastructure, buildings of residence, commerce, administration and medical care. These built
facilities are all designed, constructed, utilized, operated and maintained by human beings and
serve for better living of human beings. Generally, the properties of these objects can be divided

into geometry and non-geometry category.
Geometry concerns about the shape, size, dimensions, symmetry, position, color, texture and
their topology[14]. In AECO sector, the shapes of columns, beams, plates, walls, and windows are
usually basic cylinders or polyhedrons like cubes or prisms with polygons, especially
quadrilaterals. But there are also more and more special-shaped structures, e.g., the roofs of
Sydney Opera House and China's National Centre for the Performing Arts (the Egg Building).
Table 2 illustrates some examples of different types of objects in AECO sector, it can be noticed
that the shape of the same type object can be completely changed. However, the current database
of PCD objects, the most representative online open source platform Point Cloud Library (PCL)
for instance, are usually too generalized to optimize all parts[15]. Consequently, there are presently
three types of geometry-related methods of point clouds modelling, i.e., model-driven, data-driven
and hybrid-driven[16]. The top-down model-driven methods search best match between PCD and
existing object models from a model library with quicker speed. In contrast, the bottom-up
data-driven processes identify geometric primitives and their topology to extract object models
from PCD. While hybrid-driven methods combine model-driven and data-driven methods, which
forestall the limitations of both methods, to convert the object modeling to graph matching with
basic topology graph elements in a model library [14].
Table 2. Examples of common and special objects in AECO sector

Scores of researchers have been contributing to the geometry modelling of PCD with
building objects. Holz et al. [17] proposed a modular registration framework for aligning 3D PCD
with objects in PCL, they also overviewed registration algorithms, usage examples and application
tips for 3D PCD model-driven registration. Furthermore, Balali et al. [18] conducted a 3D traffic
sign detection and classification method based on the geometrical features, i.e., the shape together
with color. More precisely, cylinder was used to automatically detect pipes, conduits, and some
ducts from 3D PCD in real-life buildings with very high accuracy [19]. Polygonal models from
unstructured PCD were automatically created by extracting a group of RANSAC (Random sample
consensus)-based locally ﬁtted planar primitives, their boundary polygons, and local adjacency
relations[20]. On the other hand, symmetry is another significant property which can be adopted for
regular or repeated geometric 3D structure discovery [21]. However, recent symmetry detection and
symmetry-aware geometry processing studies are mostly conducted in computer graphics, while
AECO sector hasn’t gone deep into this level yet to our best knowledge. Besides, Gao et al. [22]
pointed out that there can be discrepancy of shape, dimension and composition between
as-designed BIM and PCD. Therefore, the classification and extraction of different geometry
property need to be further explored, together with the combination and interoperability of
different open source databases.
Non-geometry properties, including the specifications of materials, family types, functions,

assembly order [14], and relations between objects, are of significant importance by adding rich
information to the properties. These properties embedded in BIM make BIM essentially different
from and more advanced than CAD. They provide more compact, high-level description of objects
in a facility instead of purely raw PCD [23], enabling robots, computers to reason about objects and
interact with its environment in a goal-directed way [24]. Chen et al.,[25] concluded the geometry
and non-geometry information requirements of construction and FM stages, as displayed in Table
3. It can be easily noticed that both the types and requirements of non-geometric information are
greater than that of geometric information. However, limited research explored the non-geometric
properties in depth.
Table 3. Geometric and non-geometric information requirements of construction and FM stages [25]
Stage

Geometric
Site information
(coordinate’s data and
layout);

Construction

Building spaces (ﬂoor,
zones, rooms, openings);
Utility lines;
Dimension of building
components.

Non-geometric
Construction materials (status, quality, category, manufacturer);
Precast elements (quality, category, manufacturer);
Equipment attributes (ID, type, status);
Financial data;
Location of labor, materials, and machine;
Project performance data;
Construction schedule;
Construction activity status;
Site environment.

Building services (location,

Building services (identiﬁcation number, manufacturer);

relationship);

Status of mechanical, electrical, and plumbing equipment;

Building spaces (ﬂoor,

Maintenance record;

Facility

zones, rooms, openings);

Indoor environment;

Management

Utility lines;

Attributes of replaced components;

Speciﬁcation of exterior

Maintenance status;

enclosure products;

Maintenance schedule;

Furnishing.

Operation records.

Both geometric and non-geometric information can be generalized to semantic information,
which are increasingly used throughout a building’s life cycle, from design, through construction,
and into the FM phase[26]. To name a few, a predefined semantic net encompassing general
architectural knowledge about indoor environments was used for in-door semantic scene
interpretation from the scanned PCD [27]. Koppula et al. [28] proposed a graphical semantic labeling
model to capture a variety of properties and contextual relationships (local graphic appearance and
shape cues, object co-occurrence and geometric relationships included) in 3D indoor scenes of
homes and offices. Though growing attention has been paid to the semantics of objects and
models of facilities, most of the transformations from raw 3D PCD into semantic information
were conducted manually through labor-demanding, time-consuming, and error-prone processes
[23]
. In addition, few studies provided rich enough semantics model to enable decision-making and
applications of smart FM till now.

3.2 PCD sensing and processing

3D PCD is obtained by visible access to scanned surface of physical objects using SAR, LiDAR
technology or photogrammetry. Figure 3 illustrates the sensing methods of PCD. SAR employs
radar operating at the microwave region of the electromagnetic spectrum to acquire point clouds
or images. Since radar has the ability to penetrate the cloud, it can be used on a spacecraft or
aircraft for high resolution of earth observation and surveying. Different from radar used in SAR,
LiDAR is a widespread technology used for 3D scanning of various objects with pulsed laser light
at ultraviolet, visible, or near infrared regions. There are generally three types of LiDAR, i.e.,
Airborne Laser Scanning (ALS), Mobile Laser Scanning (MLS), and Terrestrial Laser Scanning
(TLS). A laser scanning system typically consists of a LiDAR unit, a scanner, a GPS receiver and
an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU). ALS is an active remote sensing system with a LiDAR
instrument mounted on an airplane platform, while the LiDAR of MLS or TLS is mounted on a
moving platform (e.g., vehicle or mobile phone) or a tripod respectively. Photogrammetry is also
commonly employed for 3D mapping and object reconstruction in AECO sector by extracting
PCD from massive 2D photos taken by digital cameras equipped within a spacecraft (spaceborne),
a plan or drone (airborne), or mounted on a vehicle or built in a mobile phone (mobile). Either
adopting a single digital camera to acquire 2D calibrated images or a Multi-view Stereo (MVS)
camera to take 3D stereo pictures is common and workable. Stereo-photogrammetry, a special
case of photogrammetry which focuses on 3D coordination of objects is emerging as a robust
technique in 3D reconstruction and dynamic characteristics detecting. Jalayer et al.[29] evaluated
different technologies including field inventory, photo/video log, integrated GPS/GIS (Geographic
Information System) mapping systems, aerial/satellite photography, TLS, MLS, ALS for
collecting roadside features data. Discussions of each types of PCD sensing equipment and their
instructions is not within the scope of this paper.

Figure 3. Point cloud sensing methods

Closely following the sensing step is the PCD processing, which transforms raw PCD to
well-formed objects or models. A general workflow of PCD processing is shown in Figure 4. A
pre-processing procedure including filtering, registration, shearing and re-sampling is the prior
step, among which densification might be needed before re-sampling if the density of point clouds
is too sparse. Noise is inevitable due to the surrounding environment, scene complexity, weather

conditions and equipment status, therefore noise filtering or reduction is fundamental to generate
ideal datasets for further processing. Another most-studied pre-processing step known as
registration (or point matching) is essential to align the local coordinate frame of different point
clouds datasets in a global coordinate system[30]. Iterative closest point (ICP) is a frequently
adopted algorithm in registration to minimize the difference between two sets of PCD [17]. There
are other registration algorithms, for example, robust point matching (RPM), thin plate spline
robust point matching (TPS-RPM), kernel correlation (KC), Gaussian mixture models (GMM),
coherent point drift (CPD), and sorting the correspondence space (SCS). This paper won’t go
in-depth with the introduction of these algorithms and their comparison. There are a lot research
dealing with the semi-automated registration[31] or automated registration[32][33]. Shearing is to clip
redundant parts of the registered PCD of targeted facilities. If some PCD parts of the targeted
facility are obviously intensive or scattered than other parts after the former pre-processing
procedures, a data re-sampling will be needed to ensure the equal density distribution of the whole
PCD.

Figure 4. General PCD processing workflow

After pre-processing, comprehensive PCD will be well-prepared for main processing which

generally includes meshing and segmentation/classification. Depending on different requirements
or situations of PCD usage, order of the two steps are not fixed. Meshing of point clouds is to
represent a geometric object with a set of simple polyhedral meshes from PCD. Meshing
comprises a set of processing steps, including mesh representation, mesh compression, rendering,
progressive transmission, editing operations, smoothing, parameterization, and shape
reconstruction[34]. Mesh simplification, removing elements whilst preserving mesh ﬁdelity, is the
basis of constructing Level of Detail (LoD) mesh representations and was the most discussed in
meshing[35]. Majority of meshing simplifications are triangular dominated[36], with an increase in
quadrilateral dominated[ 37 ] with the growth of data complexity. After mesh representation,
shape/object reconstruction will be conducted for segmentation or model generation, after other
might procedures such as smoothing, lighting, rendering, etc. depending on the requirements of
models.
Segmentation is to divide or disintegrate the given PCD set into non-overlap objects or
regions with homogenous spatial and spectral characteristics for feature extraction, object
recognition or model generation[38]. Traditional segmentation is data-driven using images with
region growing approach or range data with edge-based technique. Model-driven segmentation
methods will be used when the mathematical expression of the objects to be extracted is known,
for which Hough Transform (HT) and RANSAC approaches are frequently adopted[39]. For most
of the time, segmentation was done manually or semi-automatically, which is slow, painstaking,
skill-specialized, and prone to errors. For example, Yang and Dong had to manually select training
and validation targets, manually count number of objects in a shape-based segmentation method
for MLS point clouds; Rau and Chen[40] proposed a semi-automated segmentation of building
rooftops from photogrammetric 3D lines (either complete or incomplete). Challenges including
density, surface roughness, curvature, clutter, occlusion, messing/erroneous data, abstraction and
scale lead to the complexity and difficulty of automated segmentation[41]. However, researchers
never stop exploring automated segmentation methods, to name a few, Khaloo and Lattanzi[42]
proposed a region growing algorithm to automatically segment large scale PCD of surfaces with
planar and non-planar; Díaz-Vilariño et al.[43] presented a model-driven approach to automatically
segment columns of as-built buildings based on HT.
The sensing and processing procedures are so complex that not all aspects can be concluded
and discussed due to the limitation of words. However, the key point is choosing sensing methods
and equipment, as well as processing procedures and algorithms according to the requirements of
the applications. Researchers should bear in mind that how to make the most of data sensed and
convert them into valuable information in this whole process is always the first priority. In FM,
the accuracy and richness of data and information deserve most attention, which does not
necessary mean that the process methods can be neglected. Considering the complexity and huge
amount of objects in FM, automated processing approaches are in urgent demand. Coming
research has a duty to promote semantic enrichment during PCD sensing and processing to foster
smart applications of buildings, infrastructure and cities.

3.3 PCD output and decision support
Based on the 3D PCD sensing and processing procedures, final feature extraction, object
recognition or model generation will be conducted for applications. Features, higher level entities
that model the correspondence between information and activities[ 44 ], can be divided into

spatial-based features and shape-related features according to Gao et al.[22], as illustrated in Table
4. In practice, Priestnall et al.[ 45] extracted surface roughness from a digital surface model
produced by LiDAR using both topographic and spectral characteristics; Yoon et al.[46] detected
concrete tunnel installations and physically damaged parts of the liner using the geometric and
radiometric features from 3D PCD for automated tunnel routine inspections and maintenance;
Yang et al.[47], proposed a framework to identify contextual features like relative positions, relative
directions, and spatial patterns for road facilities using MLS data.
Table 4. Classification of features and object recognition approach, summarized from [22] and [48]
Features

Examples

Object recognition approach

Relative location, distance, angle,
Spatial-based

relationships (i.e., orthogonal, parallel,

2D overlap area matching; Spatial

features

adjacent, coplanar), surface roughness,

relationship-based graph matching

connectivity
Shape, shape distribution, size, similarity,
surface area, surface normal, orientation,
Shape-related

volume, dimension, linearity, planarity,

Distribution-based 3D shape matching;

features

scattering, omnivariance, anisotropy,

Distribution-based 2D shape matching

eigenentropy, eigenvalues and change of
curvature

Object recognition is the next step of feature extraction. The objects can be outdoor objects
such as pedestrians[49], railways[50], poles[51], traffic signs[52], and trees[53] and indoor objects like
walls[54], floors, ceilings, windows, doorways, and steel structures[55] etc. Different features of
point clouds help to recognize objects; thus object recognition approaches can also be divided into
two categories according to two different types of features, i.e., spatial-based object recognition
methods and shape-based object recognition methods. Among the four object recognition
approaches displayed in Table 4, spatial relationship based approach achieved the best precision
and recall of spatial relationship, but it takes the longest time, while 2D overlap area mapping is
on the contrary[22]. Recently, Sharif et al.[2] adapted and examined an automatic model-based 3D
objects finding from 3D construction PCD robustly and quickly.
Some research may also target at further 3D CAD or BIM model generation which has two
categories of methods, i.e., data-driven and model-driven. The former is bottom-up aiming at
organizing models from given geometrical and topological information; while the latter top-down
requiring predefined typical sub-models matched with the raw data[56]. Data-driven methods can
generate buildings with complex shapes but have no ability to handle strongly noisy data. On the
contrary, model-driven algorithms are robust to erroneous data, however are not competent to
describe buildings with miscellaneous shapes. Many researchers have been studying the
automatical construction of 3D building models[ 57 ], historical architecture[ 58 ], indoor
environment[59], pipelines[60], and industrial plants[61] from PCD, Hinks et al.[62] reported a flight
planning optimization strategy using ALS to create urban infrastructure model. Früh and Zakhor[63]
even proposed a drive-by-scanning methods of generating large-scale model of a city at
ground-level.
However, with so much research focusing on algorithms and methods of processing PCD,
extracting features, recognizing objects and generating models, few studies have tried to reach

decision support of FM. Some special cases are: MLS data was adopted to analyze pedestrian
crossing environments for safety management[49], extract vertical walls for solar potential
assessment[54], and collision detection of 3D models[64]; TLS data was utilized to conduct concrete
structures health assessment[65], monitor the structural health of a bridge[66], as well as automatic
detect and analyze cracks in timber beams[67]; Gonzalez-Aguilera et al.[68] presented a method to
analyze geometric information and urban density attributes automatically from ALS data; Ma et
al.[69] proposed an approach to compile BIM and PCD to generate synthetic as-damaged models
for post-earthquake operations. Actually, PCD supported models of built environment will ease
communication between stakeholders about the maintenance, refurbishment and regeneration[70],
which is of great potential value to support the decision of FM. Most current research just need to
go a step further to exploit the information in their extracted features, recognized objects and
generated models.

4 Discussion and conclusion
Based on the 47 selected articles which are closely related to PCD-enabled FM, this paper
reviewed the geometric and non-geometric properties of objects, PCD sensing methods and
processing workflow, and feature extraction, object recognition or model generation from
processed PCD, as well as the gaps of decision support for FM applications. Among semantics
information, geometric properties received more attention than non-geometric ones, though the
latter add more value to information. To acquire data for information production, SAR, LiDAR,
and photogrammetry are three main sensing methods of PCD. The raw signals need to be
pre-processed through filtering, registration, shearing, resampling etc. for followed PCD
processing, which mainly includes segmentation and meshing. After that, the processed PCD will
be extracted and recognized for model creation. Generally, most research would stop after feature
extraction, object recognition or model generation, with only a small number going further to
support FM decision-making.
According to the analytical results, it is safe to conclude that there are three major gaps in the
existing PCD-enabled FM research. First, few studies went deep to symmetry, not to mention
semantics enrichment level. Second, little attention was paid to decision support and practical
applications in FM. Third, previous studies often failed in converting data to information. Possible
reasons for these three gaps could be: (1) FM research concerns more about strategy management
than information management; (2) the improvement of hard aspects such as intelligence and
automation of facilities and services draws more attention than soft parts such as documentation
and information visualization; and (3) using PCD to facilitate FM requires multidisciplinary
knowledge, which includes but not limited to FM, remote sensing, and computing. However, it is
generally difficult for single researcher to obtain all the required knowledge.
To sum up, a lot of further research work is still needed in order to address the
above-mentioned gaps in PCD-enabled FM research. Future research can be conducted in the
following eleven directions: (1) enriching the semantics of 3D facility models generated from the
PCD[71]; (2) utilizing geometric properties such as regularity[21], symmetry[14], and repetition for
quick object recognition and model generation of typical facilities for further FM applications; (3)
generating detailed models of complex facilities to supplement the scope of FM and study the
uniqueness of their management; (4) generating more accurate and higher LoD models of exterior

façades and interior environment for better visualization[72]; (5) improving the capacity and
efficiency of PCD storage; (6) increasing algorithm scalability and computing performance for
large-scale FM studies[67]; (7) developing unified framework, standards, libraries for sharing,
updating and storing PCD of FM for wider range (city-level or even nation-level for example) of
FM research; (8) modeling real-time status of facilities for monitoring and control, safety
management, and emergency management[6]; (9) studying of real-life cases of PCD adoption in
FM and its cost benefits; (10) analyzing longitudinal evolution of facilities to study the changes in
facility properties and human behaviors; and (11) exploring potential applications including
sustainable energy, intelligent services, smart living with the accurate facility models[73].

References
[1] Wang, C., Cho, Y. K., and Kim, C. (2015). Automatic BIM component extraction from point
clouds of existing buildings for sustainability applications, Automation in Construction, 56,
1-13
[2] Sharif, M. M., Nahangi, M., Haas, C., and West, J. (2017). Automated model‐based finding of 3D
objects in cluttered construction point cloud models, Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure
Engineering, 32(11), 893-908.
[3] Yang, J., Shi, Z. K., and Wu, Z. Y. (2016). Towards automatic generation of as-built BIM: 3D
building facade modeling and material recognition from images, International Journal of
Automation and Computing, 13(4), 338-349.
[4] Braun, A., Tuttas, S., Borrmann, A., and Stilla, U. (2015). A concept for automated construction
progress monitoring using BIM-based geometric constraints and photogrammetric point
clouds, Journal of Information Technology in Construction, 20(5), 68-79.
[5] Soilán, M., Riveiro, B., Sánchez-Rodríguez, A., and Arias, P. (2018). Safety assessment on
pedestrian crossing environments using MLS data, Accident Analysis & Prevention, 111, 328-337.
[6] Wang, J., Sun, W., Shou, W., Wang, X., Wu, C., Chong, H. Y., Liu, Y., and Sun, C. (2015).
Integrating BIM and LiDAR for real-time construction quality control, Journal of Intelligent &
Robotic Systems, 79(3-4), 417-432.
[7] Kwon, S., Lee, M., Lee, M., Lee, S., and Lee, J. (2013). Development of optimized point cloud
merging algorithms for accurate processing to create earthwork site models, Automation in
Construction, 35, 618-624.
[8] Ham, Y., and Golparvar-Fard, M. (2013). An automated vision-based method for rapid 3D energy
performance modeling of existing buildings using thermal and digital imagery, Advanced
Engineering Informatics, 27(3), 395-409.
[9] Chen, K., Lu, W., Peng, Y., Rowlinson, S., and Huang, G. Q. (2015). Bridging BIM and building:
From a literature review to an integrated conceptual framework, International Journal of Project
Management, 33(6), 1405-1416.
[10] International Facility Management Association (IFMA) (2013). What is facility management?, at:
https://www.ifma.org/about/what-is-facility-management (Retrieved at May 21, 2018).
[11] Chotipanich, S. (2004). Positioning facility management. Facilities, 22(13/14), 364-372.
[12] Falagas, M. E., Pitsouni, E. I., Malietzis, G. A., and Pappas, G. (2008). Comparison of PubMed,
Scopus, web of science, and Google scholar: strengths and weaknesses, The FASEB
journal, 22(2), 338-342.
[13] Floridi L. (2005). Semantic Conceptions of Information, The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
(Winter Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), at: https://seop.illc.uva.nl/entries/information-semantic/

(Retrieved at May 21, 2018).
[14] Xue, F., Lu, W., and Chen, K. (2018). Automatic generation of semantically rich as-built building
information models using 2D images: A derivative-free optimization approach, Computer-Aided
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering. In press, doi: 10.1111/mice.12378.
[15] Miknis, M., Davies, R., Plassmann, P., and Ware, A. (2016). Efficient point cloud pre-processing
using the point cloud library, International Journal of Image Processing, 10(2), 63-72.
[16] Wang, R., Peethambaran, J., and Chen, D. (2018). LiDAR Point Clouds to 3-D Urban Models: A
Review, IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing,
11(2), 606-627.
[17] Holz, D., Ichim, A. E., Tombari, F., Rusu, R. B., and Behnke, S. (2015). Registration with the
point cloud library: A modular framework for aligning in 3-D, IEEE Robotics & Automation
Magazine, 22(4), 110-124.
[18] Balali, V., Jahangiri, A., and Machiani, S. G. (2017). Multi-class US traffic signs 3D recognition
and localization via image-based point cloud model using color candidate extraction and
texture-based recognition, Advanced Engineering Informatics, 32, 263-274.
[19] Ahmed, M. F., Haas, C. T., and Haas, R. (2014). Automatic detection of cylindrical objects in built
facilities, Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, 28(3), 04014009.
[20] Arikan, M., Schwärzler, M., Flöry, S., Wimmer, M., and Maierhofer, S. (2013). O-snap:
Optimization-based snapping for modeling architecture, ACM Transactions on Graphics, 32(1), 6.
[21] Pauly, M., Mitra, N. J., Wallner, J., Pottmann, H., and Guibas, L. J. (2008). Discovering structural
regularity in 3D geometry, ACM Transactions on Graphics, 27(3), 43.
[22] Gao, T., Ergan, S., Akinci, B., and Garrett, J. (2014). Evaluation of different features for matching
point clouds to building information models, Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, 30(1),
04014107.
[23] Xiong, X., and Huber, D. (2010). Using context to create semantic 3d models of indoor
environments, In: Proceedings of the British Machine Vision Conference. BMVA Press, pp.
45.1-45.11.
[24] Nüchter, A., and Hertzberg, J. (2008). Towards semantic maps for mobile robots, Robotics and
Autonomous Systems, 56(11), 915-926.
[25] Chen, K., Lu, W. S., Xue, F., Zheng, L. Z., and Liu, D. D. (2018). Smart gateway for bridging BIM
and building, In Proceedings of the 21st International Symposium on Advancement of
Construction Management and Real Estate (pp. 1307-1316). Springer, Singapore.
[26] Xiong, X., Adan, A., Akinci, B., and Huber, D. (2013). Automatic creation of semantically rich 3D
building models from laser scanner data, Automation in Construction, 31, 325-337.
[27] Nüchter, A., Surmann, H., Lingemann, K., and Hertzberg, J. (2003). Semantic scene analysis of
scanned 3D indoor environments, In: Proceedings of the Eighth International Fall Workshop on
Vision, Modeling, and Visualization, pp. 215-221.
[28] Koppula, H. S., Anand, A., Joachims, T., and Saxena, A. (2011). Semantic labeling of 3d point
clouds for indoor scenes, In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (pp. 244-252).
[29] Jalayer, M., Gong, J., Zhou, H., and Grinter, M. (2015). Evaluation of remote sensing technologies
for collecting roadside feature data to support highway safety manual implementation, Journal of
Transportation Safety & Security, 7(4), 345-357.
[30] Tang, P., Huber, D., Akinci, B., Lipman, R., and Lytle, A. (2010). Automatic reconstruction of
as-built building information models from laser-scanned point clouds: A review of related
techniques, Automation in Construction, 19(7), 829-843.
[31] Bosché, F. (2012). Plane-based registration of construction laser scans with 3D/4D building
models, Advanced Engineering Informatics, 26(1), 90-102.
[32] Kim, C., Son, H., and Kim, C. (2013). Fully automated registration of 3D data to a 3D CAD
model for project progress monitoring, Automation in Construction, 35, 587-594.

[33] Kim, P., Chen, J., and Cho, Y. K. (2017). Automated point cloud registration using visual and
planar features for construction environments, Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, 32(2),
04017076.
[ 34 ] Daniels, J., Silva, C. T., Shepherd, J., and Cohen, E. (2008). Quadrilateral mesh
simplification, ACM Transactions on Graphics, 27(5), 148.
[35] Cignoni, P., Montani, C., and Scopigno, R. (1998). A comparison of mesh simplification
algorithms, Computers & Graphics, 22(1), 37-54.
[36] Lin, H. W., Tai, C. L., and Wang, G. J. (2004). A mesh reconstruction algorithm driven by an
intrinsic property of a point cloud, Computer-Aided Design, 36(1), 1-9.
[37] Petitjean, S. (2002). A survey of methods for recovering quadrics in triangle meshes, ACM
Computing Surveys, 34(2), 211-262.
[38] Prerna, R., and Singh, C. K. (2016). Evaluation of LiDAR and image segmentation based
classification techniques for automatic building footprint extraction for a segment of Atlantic
County, New Jersey, Geocarto International, 31(6), 694-713.
[39] Sampath, A., and Shan, J. (2010). Segmentation and reconstruction of polyhedral building roofs
from aerial lidar point clouds, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 48(3),
1554-1567.
[ 40 ] Rau, J. Y., and Chen, L. C. (2003). Robust reconstruction of building models from
three-dimensional line segments, Photogrammetric Engineering & Remote Sensing, 69(2),
181-188.
[41] Dimitrov, A., and Golparvar-Fard, M. (2015). Segmentation of building point cloud models
including detailed architectural/structural features and MEP systems, Automation in
Construction, 51, 32-45.
[42] Khaloo, A., and Lattanzi, D. (2017). Robust normal estimation and region growing segmentation
of infrastructure 3D point cloud models, Advanced Engineering Informatics, 34, 1-16.
[43] Díaz-Vilariño, L., Conde, B., Lagüela, S., and Lorenzo, H. (2015). Automatic detection and
segmentation of columns in as-built buildings from point clouds, Remote Sensing, 7(11),
15651-15667.
[ 44 ] Regli III, W. C. (1995). Geometric algorithms for recognition of features from solid
models (Doctoral dissertation), The University of Maryland.
[45] Priestnall, G., Jaafar, J., and Duncan, A. (2000). Extracting urban features from LiDAR digital
surface models, Computers, Environment and Urban Systems, 24(2), 65-78.
[46] Yoon, J. S., Sagong, M., Lee, J. S., and Lee, K. S. (2009). Feature extraction of a concrete tunnel
liner from 3D laser scanning data, NDT & E International, 42(2), 97-105.
[47] Yang, B., Dong, Z., Liu, Y., Liang, F., and Wang, Y. (2017). Computing multiple aggregation
levels and contextual features for road facilities recognition using mobile laser scanning
data, ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 126, 180-194.
[48] Weinmann, M., Jutzi, B., Hinz, S., and Mallet, C. (2015). Semantic point cloud interpretation
based on optimal neighborhoods, relevant features and efficient classifiers, ISPRS Journal of
Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 105, 286-304.
[49] Soilán, M., Riveiro, B., Sánchez-Rodríguez, A., and Arias, P. (2018). Safety assessment on
pedestrian crossing environments using MLS data, Accident Analysis & Prevention, 111, 328-337.
[50] Yang, B., and Fang, L. (2014). Automated extraction of 3-D railway tracks from mobile laser
scanning point clouds, IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and
Remote Sensing, 7(12), 4750-4761.
[51] Rodríguez-Cuenca, B., García-Cortés, S., Ordóñez, C., and Alonso, M. C. (2015). Automatic
detection and classification of pole-like objects in urban point cloud data using an anomaly
detection algorithm, Remote Sensing, 7(10), 12680-12703.
[52] Balali, V., Jahangiri, A., and Machiani, S. G. (2017). Multi-class US traffic signs 3D recognition

and localization via image-based point cloud model using color candidate extraction and
texture-based recognition, Advanced Engineering Informatics, 32, 263-274.
[53] Alonzo, M., Bookhagen, B., and Roberts, D. A. (2014). Urban tree species mapping using
hyperspectral and lidar data fusion, Remote Sensing of Environment, 148, 70-83.
[54] Jochem, A., Höfle, B., and Rutzinger, M. (2011). Extraction of vertical walls from mobile laser
scanning data for solar potential assessment, Remote Sensing, 3(4), 650-667.
[55] Laefer, D. F., and Truong-Hong, L. (2017). Toward automatic generation of 3D steel structures for
building information modelling, Automation in Construction, 74, 66-77.
[56] Huang, X. (2013). Building reconstruction from airborne laser scanning data, Geo-spatial
Information Science, 16(1), 35-44.
[57] Truong‐Hong, L., Laefer, D. F., Hinks, T., and Carr, H. (2013). Combining an angle criterion with
voxelization and the flying voxel method in reconstructing building models from LiDAR
data, Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering, 28(2), 112-129.
[ 58 ] Murphy, M., McGovern, E., and Pavia, S. (2013). Historic Building Information
Modelling–Adding intelligence to laser and image based surveys of European classical
architecture, ISPRS journal of photogrammetry and remote sensing, 76, 89-102.
[59] Jung, J., Hong, S., Yoon, S., Kim, J., and Heo, J. (2015). Automated 3D wireframe modeling of
indoor structures from point clouds using constrained least-squares adjustment for as-built
BIM, Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, 30(4), 04015074.
[60] Patil, A. K., Holi, P., Lee, S. K., and Chai, Y. H. (2017). An adaptive approach for the
reconstruction and modeling of as-built 3D pipelines from point clouds, Automation in
Construction, 75, 65-78.
[61] Son, H., Kim, C., and Kim, C. (2015). 3D reconstruction of as-built industrial instrumentation
models from laser-scan data and a 3D CAD database based on prior knowledge, Automation in
Construction, 49, 193-200.
[62] Hinks, T., Carr, H., and Laefer, D. F. (2009). Flight optimization algorithms for aerial LiDAR
capture for urban infrastructure model generation, Journal of Computing in Civil
Engineering, 23(6), 330-339.
[63] Früh, C., and Zakhor, A. (2004). An automated method for large-scale, ground-based city model
acquisition, International Journal of Computer Vision, 60(1), 5-24.
[64] Schauer, J., and Nüchter, A. (2015). Collision detection between point clouds using an efficient kd
tree implementation, Advanced Engineering Informatics, 29(3), 440-458.
[65] Yang, H., Xu, X., and Neumann, I. (2014). The benefit of 3D laser scanning technology in the
generation and calibration of FEM models for health assessment of concrete
structures, Sensors, 14(11), 21889-21904.
[66] Sánchez‐Rodríguez, A., Riveiro, B., Conde, B., and Soilán, M. (2018). Detection of structural
faults in piers of masonry arch bridges through automated processing of laser scanning
data, Structural Control and Health Monitoring, 25(3), e2126.
[67] Cabaleiro, M., Lindenbergh, R., Gard, W. F., Arias, P., and van de Kuilen, J. W. G. (2017).
Algorithm for automatic detection and analysis of cracks in timber beams from LiDAR
data, Construction and Building Materials, 130, 41-53.
[68] Gonzalez-Aguilera, D., Crespo-Matellan, E., Hernandez-Lopez, D., and Rodriguez-Gonzalvez, P.
(2013). Automated urban analysis based on LiDAR-derived building models, IEEE Transactions
on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 51(3), 1844-1851.
[69] Ma, L., Sacks, R., Zeibak-Shini, R., Aryal, A., and Filin, S. (2015). Preparation of synthetic
as-damaged models for post-earthquake BIM reconstruction research, Journal of Computing in
Civil Engineering, 30(3), 04015032.
[70] Arayici, Y. (2007). An approach for real world data modelling with the 3D terrestrial laser
scanner for built environment, Automation in Construction, 16(6), 816-829.

[71] Pärn, E. A., and Edwards, D. J. (2017). Conceptualising the FinDD API plug-in: A study of
BIM-FM integration. Automation in Construction, 80, 11-21.
[72] Baik, A. (2017). From point cloud to jeddah heritage BIM nasif historical house–case
study. Digital Applications in Archaeology and Cultural Heritage, 4, 1-18.
[73] Jochem, A., Höfle, B., and Rutzinger, M. (2011). Extraction of vertical walls from mobile laser
scanning data for solar potential assessment. Remote sensing, 3(4), 650-667.

