Multi-agent Optimization Design for
Multi-resource Job Shop Scheduling Problems
Fan Xue and Wei Fan
College of Computer Science and Technology, Civil Aviation University of China,
Tianjin 300300, P.R. China
wfan@cauc.edu.cn

Abstract. As a practical generalization of the job shop scheduling problem, multi-resource job shop scheduling problem (MRJSSP) is discussed
in this paper. In this problem, operations may be processed by a type
of resources and jobs have individual deadlines. How to design and optimize this problem with DSAFO, a novel multi-agent algorithm, is introduced in detail by a case study, including problem analysis, agent role
speciﬁcation, and parameter selection. Experimental results show the
eﬀectiveness and eﬃciency of designing and optimizing MRJSSPs with
multi-agent.

1

Introduction

A practical generalization of the job shop scheduling problem (JSSP), which
we call the multi-resource job shop scheduling problem (MRJSSP), is concerned
in this paper. Informally, the problem can be stated as follows. There are a
set of jobs and a set of resources. Each job consists of a lattice of operations
that must be processed in a given order, and has, individually, a job ready time
and a job deadline. Each operation is given an integeral processing time, and
a longer resource usage time (plan time) for extra traﬃc (spatial distribution),
preparation, and reset actions. Each operation needs one resource to process, and
the processing is uninterruptible. Each resource can process only one operation
simultaneously. The objective of MRJSSP is to ﬁnd the best scheduling solution
with minimal resource consumption, i.e. maximal resource utility.
JSSP has been studied by both academic and industrial society for decades [1],
however in many practical situations, (i) an operation can be processed by any
one resource (or machine) from a group; (ii) jobs have individual deadlines; (iii)
the requirement of no tardiness for any jobs is more important than makespan;
and (iv) to reduce consumption as much as possible in order to maximize the
machine utilities. Those are, ﬁtly, the cases of MRJSSPs.
M. Perregaard (1995) proposed multi-processor job shop scheduling problem
(MPJSSP), which concerned multiple processing capacity as well, and A. Cesta,
A. Oddi, and S. F. Smith (2000) developed an iterative improvement search
approach for it. W. P. M. Nuijten and E. H. L. Aarts (1996) [4] presented another
problem: multiple capacitated job shop scheduling problem (MCJSSP), which
D.-S. Huang, L. Heutte, and M. Loog (Eds.): ICIC 2007, LNAI 4682, pp. 1193–1204, 2007.
c Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2007


1194

F. Xue and W. Fan

extended MPJSSP by allowing each operation has a size. Nevertheless, both
MPJSSP and MCJSSP ignored the spatial conditions and supporting handling
in real-world engineering processes. Furthermore most of scheduling works are,
practically, pre-scheduled by domain experts, so what we need to optimize is,
usually, to maximize the resource utility to meet a timetable, not the makespan.
All of these are well presented in MRJSSP, which is detailed in Section 2.
The remainder of the paper is structured as follows: Section 2 represents a
deﬁnition of the multi-resource job shop scheduling problem. Section 3 reviews
the DSAFO algorithm brieﬂy. Section 4 demonstrates the design procedure via
a case study. Experimental results appear in Section 5 and a brief conclusion is
given in Section 6.

2

The Multi-resource Job Shop Scheduling Problem

Deﬁnition 1 (MRJSSP). An instance of multi-resource job shop scheduling
problem is a tuple F, O, R, T , , D, F, rt, st, ut, et, tt, Ω, γ, s where
- a set of n jobs;
J = {j1 , j2 , . . . , jn }
O = {o1 , o2 , . . . , op } = O1 ∪ O2 ∪ . . . ∪ Om , where ∀ Omi ∩ Omj =Ø
mi =mj

- a set of p operations in m types (partitions);
R = {r1 , r2 , . . . , rq } = R1 ∪ R2 ∪ . . . ∪ Rt , where ∀ Rti ∩ Rtj =Ø
ti =tj

- a set of q resources in t types (partitions);
C = O1 × Rt1 ∪ O2 × Rt2 ∪ . . . ∪ Om × Rtm
- processing capabilities;
 : O → O
- precedence or equality, decomposing O into
lattices (specially, chains) of jobs;
D : J → Z+
deadline of a job;
0
J : O → J
- job belonging to;
rt : O → Z+
- operation ready time;
0
st : O → Z+
- non-zero operation service time;
ut : O → Z+
- operation setup time;
0
et : O → Z+
- operation reset time;
0
- resource traﬃc time for an operation;
tt : R × O → Z+
0
Ω : R × Z+
0 → O ∪ {Ø} - which operation is in process at a certain time,
returns Ø when non-single operations assigned.
The objective is to ﬁnd two functions: s and γ, where
γ : O → R - assign resources;
s : O → Z+
0 - assign service start time,
s.t. ∀ [ o, γ(o) ∈ C
o∈O

∧rt(o) ≤ s(o)
∧s(o) + st(o) ≤ D(F (o))
∧ ∀  s(o) + st(o) ≤ rt(o )
o≺o

∧

∀

Ω(γ(o), τ ) = o]

s(o)−ut(o)−tt(γ(o),o)≤τ <s(o)+st(o)+et(o)

∧|ran(γ)| = min |ran(γi )|,
γi ∈Γ

Multi-agent Optimization Design

1195

where o ≺ o is abbreviated from o  o ∧o = o , Γ is the set of all valid schedules,
|ran(γ)| is the range size of function γ.
MRJSSP is a special case of distributed constraint satisfaction problem (DisCSP), according to the deﬁnition by [6]. Remark that the decision variant of the
MRJSSP is NP-complete, as (i) it is in NP, because for a given schedule s all
constraints can be checked in polynomial time, and (ii) the decision variant of
the JSSP is an NP-complete special case of the decision variant of MRJSSP [5].

3

DSAFO: Overview and Strategies

DSAFO, i.e. Dynamic Scheduling Agents with Federation Organization, which
had been formalized in [7], is a novel multi-agent approach to Dis-CSP, especially for MRJSSPs. DSAFO employs blackboard mechanism, federation organization, meta-level guided resource borrowing and domain knowledge guided plan
backtrack. This algorithm is based on run-and-schedule, a dynamic distributed
scheduling environment, which uninterruptedly observes real-time job data from
enterprise systems. As shown in Fig. 1, DSAFO runs as follow:
1. to read real-time job data from run-and-schedule environment;
2. to decompose jobs into operations;
3. to divide the solution space dynamically into rational partitions with multiagents;
4. to conquer each partition with local heuristics;
5. to optimize the solution simultaneously via coordination among partitions
from global view;
6. to dispatch the solution to real world environment simultaneously.
Internally, DSAFO algorithm can be viewed as a multi-agent approach with
strategies of local heuristics and global coordination.
Run−and−schedule
environment
Job data
from ERP
systems

Blackboard
agent

Real−time
data
collection

Clock

DSAFO
Resource
administrator
agent

resource groups
Coordinator
agent 1

Member
agent 1

Member
agent 2

Coordinator
agent m

Member
agent n

Real world resources

Fig. 1. An overview of DSAFO

1196

F. Xue and W. Fan

There are two parts of local heuristics in DSAFO, both are EDD (Earliest Due
Date ﬁrst). One is to select the ﬁrst operation to do according to weighted latest
ﬁnish time, and the other is to assign an operation to a resource from some committed resources according to the earliest committed service start time. However,
when the problem scale increases, EDD falls, generally, into local minimum. So
DSAFO employs local heuristics (EDD) in dynamic cooperative agents to jump
out of local minimum.
Global coordination is a mechanism that exchanges resource textures of agents
and realizes a complete resource borrow procedure for agents. And there are
two kinds of relationships between two Member agents with the same type of
resources: buddy and competitor. If two Member agents share same type of resources and same type of operations, they are competitors; if they share same
type of resources but diﬀerent type of operations, they are buddies. A group of
buddies always help each other, by lending its own resource friendly.

4

Design with DSAFO: A Case Study

Airport ground service is the service process from ﬂight landing to takeoﬀ, including gate assignment, baggage handling, catering, fueling, cleaning, etc. Airport
ground service scheduling (AGSS) is to schedule many kinds of dynamic ground
resources (baggage trucks, fuel trucks, etc.), to fulﬁll all constrained service operations of ﬂights timely to meet their arrival and departure deadlines [8]. The
typical operations for a job, transfer ﬂight service, is shown as Fig. 2.

custom
transfer bridge/
passenger stair
chock
wheels

commissary
trucks/ mobile
belt conveyor

catering
disembark
unload
baggage

boarding

cleaning
unload
cargo
& mail

load
cargo
& mail

remove
bridge/
stair
load
baggage

push
back

refuel
portable water & lavatory service
maintenance check
power supply/ deicing/ air condition

Fig. 2. Typical operations for a transfer ﬂight

The AGSS problem well meets the qualiﬁcations of the MRJSSP deﬁnition.
For each type of operations shown in Fig. 2, one (or a group) of certain type(s)
of materials, engineers, aviation ground support facilities and equipments, and
transportation equipments are required. For instance, process “cleaning” requires
cleaners (and cleaners’ bus), “catering” requires catering truck, etc. However,
AGSS problem has one more constraint: resources, i.e. engineers and equipments,
have limited job time, e.g. 8 hours for an engineer per day.

Multi-agent Optimization Design

1197

Then we demonstratively design AGSS problem optimization with DSAFO
in three phases: entity and extra constraint analysis, algorithm speciﬁcation,
and parameter decision. Similar design procedures could be applied to other
MRJSSPs.
In the analysis phase, in AGSS problem the pre-determined ﬂight schedule and
real-time operation systems (such as Flight Operation Control system, Airport
Operation Data Base) provide eﬃcient input data (ready time and due date) for
jobs (ﬂights). The jobs come, commonly, one by one, and peak not too much in
busy hours. In airports, service support vehicles and engineers must travel along
speciﬁc roads, load materials, and unload at job-speciﬁc points. These geographic
distance and the maximal airport ground travel speed (5km/h) could provide us
eﬃcient traﬃc time estimation on service support actions. Some resources are
always bounded together, such as a cleaners’ group, they can be considered as
one resource.
As to the job time limitation of resources, we should modify the resource allocation mechanism in DSAFO. Another constraint is that in minor cases several
operations around a physical airplane may conﬂict with each other, we should
conclude the cases and properly relax these operations in operation dispatching
process.
In the speciﬁcation phase, agent roles in DSAFO are assigned with capabilities
and meanings. We design the Blackboard role to be in charge of decision-making
of operation dispatch, the ResourceAdmin role to be in charge of decision-making
of resource allocation, and Member roles to be in charge of making operationresource match-up dynamically. The Coordinator role is, invariably, assigned to
facilitate cooperations among Member agents.
The real-time job data are gathered and decomposed into operations by the
Blackboard role, with considering the possible spatial collision among operations.
the job time limitation of resources is monitored by the ResourceAdmin role, for
it controls the allocation of resource. Proper processing plans for resources are
made by the Member role, according to airport geographic information.
In the last phase, the parameters are designed, experimented, and analyzed
one by one. In DSAFO, there are some main parameters: (Member) AgentNumber Blockfactor, Delayfactor, and Syncycle. We choose baggage tractor (BT)
consumption and related drivers’ 4-hour job optimization to test the parameters, and have spontaneous 250 runs to get the distributions of the solutions in
each test.
Parameter Member agent number (accompanied with Reqcycle) stands for
how many Member agents in DSAFO are maintained for a certain type of resources. And in all the parameters, this number should be notably inﬂuential.
When Blockfactor=1/12, Delayfactor=1/6, and Reqcycle is from 1/6 to 2 respectively, Fig. 3 and Fig. 4 show the solution distributions with diﬀerent BT Member
agents in 3D map and contour map, as well as marginal distributions. When the
number increases from 1 to 4, the solutions are going better, because the coordination strategy makes more insuﬃcient eﬀect when the number increases from
only one (no coordination). On the contrary, when the number increases from 4

1198

F. Xue and W. Fan

1 BT Agent

2 BT Agents

4 BT Agents

6 BT Agents

8 BT Agents

12 BT Agents

Fig. 3. BT solution distributions with respect to AgentNumber

Multi-agent Optimization Design

Fig. 4. BT solution marginal distributions with respect to AgentNumber

1 BT Member Agent with Blockfactor=1/12

1 BT Member Agent with Blockfactor=1/24

1 BT Member Agent with Blockfactor=1/36
Fig. 5. BT solution distributions with respect to Blockfactor

1199

1200

F. Xue and W. Fan

Fig. 6. BT solution marginal distributions with respect to Blockfactor

4 BT Member agents with Delayfactor=1/3

4 BT Member agents with Delayfactor=1/6

4 BT Member agents with Delayfactor=1/24
Fig. 7. BT solution distributions with respect to Delayfactor

Multi-agent Optimization Design

1201

to 12, the solutions are going worse, because too many agents divide the global
solution into too many fragments, so that local heuristics in these fragments lack
of enough global viewpoints, and coordination cannot optimize these fragments
very well.
Blockfactor is another inﬂuential parameter. We set AgentNumber=1, Delayfactor=1/6, Syncycle=5 and Reqcycle = 1/6, and then we get solution distributions with respect to Blockfactor in 3D map and contour map, and marginal
distributions, as shown in Fig. 5 and Fig. 6. From the ﬁgures we can conclude
that when Blockfactor decreases, resource consumption stays the same approximately and 4-hour jobs arranged decrease a bit; and when the Blockfactor goes
smaller, the solutions distributes turn more centralized, and the algorithm acts
more similar as a stable algorithm. Specially, we embedded one single Member
agent in Blackboard agent, i.e. without any unstable factors from communication, to eliminate the interference from network message communication. The
new embedded algorithm degrades to a deterministic algorithm as shown in
Fig. 6 (approximately the same as EDD* in Section 5).
Delayfactor stands for how much time Member agent should delay extra after
a successful operation commitment, and it is not a very inﬂuential parameter. We
set AgentNumber=4, Blockfactor=1/12, Syncycle=5 and Reqcycle = 1/2. Then
we get distributions in 3D map and contour map, and marginal distributions,
as shown in Fig. 7 and Fig. 8. No signiﬁcant changes are there for 4-hour jobs,
however the peaks of 3D map and contour map move up-down a bit, which
means resource consumption is inﬂuenced, faintly.

Fig. 8. BT solution marginal distributions with respect to Delayfactor

5

Experimental Comparison

Ant system have succeeded in many optimization and scheduling areas, and
MMAS (MAX -MIN ant system) is an improved ant system which gives an
upper and a lower bound to intensity quantity of trails in ant system [9,10].
We implemented a MMAS for BT arrangement to compare. m BT related

1202

F. Xue and W. Fan

operations in AGSS problem are transformed into m nodes in trade salesman
problem (TSP). A distance between two nodes (operations) ri and rj is represented as
⎧
⎪
⎨(DueDaterj − DueDateri )/10, DueDaterj > DueDateri ,
def
dri rj = 0.01,
DueDaterj = DueDateri ,
⎪
⎩
(DueDateri − DueDaterj )/30, DueDaterj < DueDateri .
And rest parameters of MMAS are: α = 1.5, β = 2, ρ = 0.05, τinit = 1,
τmax = 100, τmin = 0.01, Nant = n/5 (upper integer), NCmax = 150. And for
each successful ant run R done by ant i, all of edges in Hamilton circle of R get
a positive feedback

10
< ri , rj >∈ circle of R;
2,
i
Δτri rj = (resR +jobR /3)
0,
otherwise.
to reinforce the whole algorithm for fewer resources and jobs.
Then DSAFO (with parameters: AgentNumberBT =4, Blockfactor=1/12, Delayfactor=1/6, Syncycle=5), EDD* (EDD in run-and-schedule), ERT* (earliest
ready time ﬁrst in run-and-schedule) and MMAS were tested with real-world
AGSS test data with 252 transfer ﬂights. We choose BT related operations (1,008
activities in total) to test performances of these algorithms. A comparison in BT
consumption and 4-hour BT jobs arrangement is shown in Table 1. Additionally
we put time cost and average CPU rate in the table. The best value in each
group is bolded.
Table 1. Optimization algorithm comparison
Algorithm

Time

CPU

DSAFO
≈144 sec <1%
MMAS ≈ 12 hours ≈100%
EDD*
≈43 sec <1%
ERT*
≈43 sec <1%

Resources
4-hour jobs
MIN MAX AVG MIN MAX AVG
47
47
53
52

56
—
53
52

49.9 123 130 126.3
— 141 —
—
53 129 129 129
52 130 130 130

From Table 1, it can be concluded that DSAFO and MMAS both do well in
resource consumption for MRJSSPs, and DSAFO do better in BT jobs arrangement. Furthermore, DSAFO cost not too much time (several minutes) and very
low CPU rate, in fact most time is used to maintain eﬀective message transmission. On the contrary, MMAS costs very much time and near 100% CPU rate.

6

Conclusion and Future Works

In this paper, we present a practical general model of the job shop scheduling problem, i.e. multi-resource job shop scheduling problem, and demonstrates

Multi-agent Optimization Design

1203

a design and optimization process on this problem with a novel multi-agent
algorithm DSAFO. We have shown that this design and optimization process
is comprehensive for extra scheduling constraints and the experimental results
shows its eﬀectiveness and eﬃciency.
One of the future works is to put forward an easy-to-use schedule software
to simplify the design process. A preliminary development environment AGSAP
has been developed to apply DSAFO to aid common AGSS optimization in [11].
In future, more easy-to-use development environments should be put forward for
general MRJSSPs.

Acknowledgement
The authors acknowledge the support by National Natural Science Foundation
of China (NSFC) under Grant No. 60472123.

References
1. Jain, A.S., Meeran,S.: Deterministic Job-Shop Scheduling: Past, Present and Future. European Journal of Operational Research, 113(2) (1999) 390-434
2. Perregaard, M.: Branch and Bound Method for the Multiprocessor Jobshop and
Flowshop Scheduling Problem. Master Thesis, Departement of Computer Science,
University of Copenhagen, Danemark. (1995)
3. Cesta, A., Oddi, A., and Smith, S. F: Iterative ﬂattening: a scalable method for
solving multi-capacity scheduling problems. In Proceedings of the Seventeenth National Conference on Artiﬁcial intelligence and Twelfth Conference on innovative
Applications of Artiﬁcial intelligence (July 30 - August 03, 2000). AAAI Press /
The MIT Press (2000) 742-747
4. Nuijten, W.P.M., Aarts, E.H.L.: A Computational Study of Constraint Satisfaction
for Multiple Capacitated Job Shop Scheduling. European Journal of Operational
Research, 90(2) (1996) 269-284
5. Garey, M.R., Johnson, D.S.: Computers and Intractability - a Guide to the Theory
of NP-completeness. W.H. Freeman and Company, New York. (1979)
6. Yokoo, M., Durfee, E.H., Ishida, T., Kuwabara K.: The Distributed Constraint Satisfaction Problem: Formalization and Algorithms. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 10(5) (1998) 673-685
7. Fan, W., Xue, F.: Optimize Cooperative Agents with Organization in Distributed
Scheduling System. in Second International Conference on Intelligent Computing
(ICIC 2006), Kunming, China, 2006. D.-S. Huang, K. Li, and G.W. Irwin (Eds.):
Lecture Notes in Artiﬁcial Intelligence 4114 (2006) 502-509
8. Xing, J., Liu, S., Fan, W., Ji, L.: Design of Airport Ground Service System Based
on Multi-Agent. Journal of Civil Aviation University of China. 24(3) (2006) 24–27
(in Chinese)
9. Stützle, T., Hoos, H.: The MAX -MIN Ant System and Local Search for The
Traveling Salesman Problem. In Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference
on Evolutionary Computation (ICEC’97), IEEE Press. (1997) 308-313

1204

F. Xue and W. Fan

10. Stützle, T., Hoos, H.: Improvements on the Ant System: Introducing MAX –MIN
Ant system. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Artiﬁcial Neural
Networks and Genetic Algorithms, Springer Verlag, Wien. (1997) 245-249
11. Fan, W., Zhang, G., Xue, F.: Design and Implementation of Airline Ground Services Mas Development Platform. In First Conference on Multi-agent Theory and
Application, Yantai, China. C. Y. Shi, Z. Z. Shi, et al (Eds.): Journal of Computer
Research and Development 43 (s1) (2006) 414-419.

