CMA–VNS: A Short Description
Fan Xue and Geoffrey Q.P. Shen∗
{fan.xue, bsqpshen}@polyu.edu.hk
July 8, 2015

1

Introduction

The CMA-VNS (Covariance Matrix Adaptation Variable Neighborhood Search) solver is
a competitor for the first Combinatorial Black-Box Optimization Competition (CBBOC
20151 ). CMA-VNS is a hyper-heuristic which employs a CMA-ES (Covariance Matrix
Adaptation Evolution Strategy) [Hansen et al., 2003] evolution which is followed by an
iterated local search. The reason of employing the CMA-ES is the efficient estimation
of variables in CMA-ES. Hence the local search, variable neighborhood search in this
context, can be facilitated against expensive (and/or limited) evaluations.

2

Main Procedure

Figure 1 shows the pseudo code of CMA-VNS. There are two main blocks in the pseudo
code: CMA block (line 4-7) and VNS block (line 8-15). The proportion of the two block
is controlled in a hyper-heuristic mechanism which tested the overall performance of a
number of modes before-hand and trained a set of rules from the results.
The CMA block trains a bi-population CMA-ES2 to predict promising solutions in a
given black-box problem. One of the most important parameter lambda is determined
by the pre-determined rules. If any new best known solutions are found, they can be
appended into the elite set except for the premature solutions at very beginning.
The VNS block employs three mechanisms. First, a backbone (common bits of elite
sets, see [Zhang and Looks, 2005]) is constructed to strengthen the intensification of
searching. Then an estimated promising solution is generated by CMA-ES for diversification then combined with the backbone. At last, a VNS procedure tries to find
improvements of the generated solution. If the new result is better than the best known
value, the new result is appended to the elite set.
∗

Corresponding author. Tel.: (852) 2766 5817; Addr.: Department of Building and Real Estate, The
Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hunghom, Kowloon, Hong Kong S.A.R., China P.R.
1
See http://web.mst.edu/~tauritzd/CBBOC/.
2
From libcmaes, see https://github.com/beniz/libcmaes.

1

1: procedure cma–vns(dimension, evaluations)
. Note: Main procedure
2:
params ← configure by pre-trained rules (dimension, evaluations)
3:
elites ← ∅
4:
repeat
. Note: CMAES goes first
5:
solutions ← bipopCMAES(params.lambda)
6:
elites += solutions.new best knowns
7:
until params.cma eval is met
8:
repeat
. Note: Then VNS
9:
backbone ← common bits(elites)
10:
s0 ← bipopCMAES.predict with backbone
. Note: By CMAES and elites
11:
solution ← vns (s0 )
. Note: With a flipping tabu list
12:
if solution is new best known then
13:
elites += solution
14:
end if
15:
until params.vns eval is met
16: end procedure

Figure 1: Pseudo code of CMA–VNS

3

Additional features

Solution cache A hashtable cache is employed to map bit vectors to objective function
values. Before any evaluation request, the bit vector is tested first in the cache. A
successful hit can save time and increase effective evaluations.
Tabu list of flipping In the procedure of VNS, a tabu list of flipping is used to avoid
try bit flips which failed recently. When the list usually increases from empty set to
all bits quickly, i.e. no bit can be changed. And the list will be cleared once until
no improvements found since last clearance. Experiments show that the tabu list
makes evaluation of solutions more effective.
Training free The parameters of CMA-VNS are determined by pre-trained rules. The
dimension and maximum evaluations are the two main inputs for using the rules.
In addition, the rules are found effective enough without re-running and re-training
for each NK problem set.

References
[Hansen et al., 2003] Hansen, N., Müller, S. D., and Koumoutsakos, P. (2003). Reducing
the time complexity of the derandomized evolution strategy with covariance matrix
adaptation (cma–es). Evol. Comput., 11(1):1–18.
[Zhang and Looks, 2005] Zhang, W. and Looks, M. (2005). A novel local search algorithm
for the traveling salesman problem that exploits backbones. In Proceedings of the 19th
International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI’05, pages 343–348, San
Francisco, CA, USA. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc.

2

