From Semantic Segmentation to Semantic Registration: Derivative-Free OptimizationBased Approach for Automatic Generation of Semantically Rich As-Built Building
Information Models from 3D Point Clouds
Fan Xue 1, Weisheng Lu 2, Ke Chen 3, and Anna Zetkulic 4
This is the peer-reviewed, post-print version of the paper:
Xue, F., Lu, W., Chen, K., & Zetkulic, A. (2019). From semantic segmentation to
semantic registration: Derivative-free optimization-based approach for automatic
generation of semantically rich as-built building information models from 3D point
clouds. Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, 33(4): 04019024. Doi:
10.1061/(ASCE)CP.1943-5487.0000839
This material is shared under the permission of ASCE, and may be downloaded for personal
use only. Any other use requires prior permission of ASCE. The official version of this paper
may be accessed at http://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)CP.1943-5487.0000839.

Highlights


This paper proposes a new ‘semantic registration’ paradigm for reconstructing as-built
BIMs from 3D point clouds.



This paper develops a derivative-free optimization approach as well as a BIM software
plugin to realize the ‘semantic registration’ paradigm.



This paper employs two processes of surface sampling and voxelization for efficient
estimation of geometric errors between a BIM and a point cloud in the derivative-free
optimization approach.



The effectiveness and the sensitivity of the approach was validated using a noisy indoor
furniture case (100% precision and recall, RMSE=3.87cm, in 0.8s per BIM component),
and the scalability was tested in a lecture hall case with 293 chairs (over 80% precision
and recall, RMSE = 8.1cm, in about 5.0s per BIM component).



The proposed ‘semantic registration’ paradigm is proven: (i) free from segmentation, (ii)
capable of processing complex scenes, and (iii) reusing online open BIM resources.

1

Research Assistant Professor, Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong,
Pokfulam, Hong Kong SAR, Email: xuef@hku.hk;
2
Associate Professor, Corresponding Author, Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of
Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong Kong SAR, Email: wilsonlu@hku.hk;
3
Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam,
Hong Kong SAR, Email: leochen@connect.hku.hk;
4
Senior Research Assistant, Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong,
Pokfulam, Hong Kong SAR, Email: zetkulic@hku.hk;

Abstract
Development of semantically rich as-built building information models (BIMs) presents an
ongoing challenge for the global BIM and computing engineering communities. A plethora of
approaches have been developed which, however, possess several common weaknesses: (1)
heavy reliance on laborious manual or semi-automatic segmentation of raw data (e.g., 2D
images or 3D point clouds); (2) unsatisfactory results for complex scenes (e.g., furniture or
non-standard indoor settings); and (3) failure to use existing resources for modelling and
semantic enrichment. This paper aims to advance a novel, derivative-free optimization (DFO)based approach that can automatically generate semantically rich as-built BIMs of complex
scenes from 3D point clouds. In layman’s terms, the proposed approach recognizes candidate
BIM components from 3D point clouds, reassembles the components into a BIM, and registers
them with semantic information from credible sources. The approach was prototyped in
Autodesk Revit and tested on a noisy point cloud of office furniture scanned via a Google
Tango smartphone. The results revealed that the semantically rich as-built BIM was
automatically and correctly generated with a root-mean-square error (RMSE) of 3.87 cm in a
sheer 6.44 seconds, which outperformed the well-known Iterative Closest Point (ICP)
algorithm. The approach was then scaled up to a large auditorium scene consisting of 293 chairs
to generate a satisfactory output BIM with a precision of 81.9% and a recall of 80.5%. The
‘semantic registration’ approach also proved superior to existing ‘segmentation approaches’ in
that it is segmentation-free, and capable of processing complex scenes and reusing known
information. In addition to these methodological contributions, this approach, properly scaled
up, will open new avenues for creation of building/ city information models from inexpensive
data sources and support profound value-added applications such as smart building or smart
city developments.

Keywords: Building information model (BIM); ‘as-built’ BIM; semantic enrichment;
derivative-free optimization; semantic registration.

Introduction
A building information model (BIM) is a digital representation of the physical and functional
characteristics of a facility and serves as a shared knowledge resource for decision-making
throughout its lifecycle (NIBS, 2015). BIM has evolved from a buzzword into a technological
hallmark of the architecture, engineering, construction, and operations (AECO) industry
(Eastman et al., 2011; Xiong et al., 2013; Pătrăucean et al., 2015). Properly integrated with
2

geographic information systems (GIS) or city information models (CIM), it can mature into an
indispensable component of urban-scale information infrastructure and enable various
urbanization initiatives (Lu et al., 2018). The development of ‘as-built’ or ‘as-is’ BIMs is at the
core of these potential applications.

An ‘as-built’ BIM is a representation of a facility as actually constructed or as it currently exists
(Tang et al., 2010). Semantic information contained in a BIM generally consists of details
specific to individual construction components (e.g., position, geometric size and shape, nongeometric type, material specification, and meanings of functions) and their relationships (e.g.,
dependency, topology, and joints) (e.g., Belsky et al., 2016). Some semantic information vital
to a facility, such as actual building geometries, current functions, and real topology, can only
embodied in as-built BIMs (Tang et al., 2010; Pătrăucean et al., 2015). In addition, the as-built
condition of a facility will differ from when it was designed (i.e., an as-designed BIM) due to
design changes, inadvertent deviations or errors, and renovation work. To better support new
and complex applications, therefore, the AECO community continues to pursue the generation
of semantically rich as-built BIMs.

A wealth of technological approaches has been developed to generate as-built BIMs. Volk et
al. (2014) delineate these approaches as either data-driven or model-driven. A data-driven
method performs modeling based on the extraction of features, shapes, materials, and statistics
from the preprocessed measurement data, while a model-driven method generally refers to
comparing the known components against the datasets (e.g., point clouds or imagery),
recognizing components, and fitting them in a BIM based on pre-defined rules (Xue et al.,
2018b). Manual creation of as-built BIMs by professional modelers is often adopted but this
process is extremely tedious, time-consuming, and error-prone (Pătrăucean et al., 2015; PerezPerez et al., 2016; Xue et al., 2018a; Tang et al., 2010; Jung et al., 2014), and these limitations
become insurmountable when modeling at an urban scale (i.e., inputting BIM with CIM). For
this reason, the prevailing research has focused on semi-automatic or fully automatic methods
of as-built BIM generation.

Input measurement data for as-built BIM generation range from 2D imagery to point clouds.
The latter, which can be collected using any type of 3D scanner, have become increasingly
affordable and thus popular in recent years (Tang et al., 2010; Wang et al., 2017). Considerable
advances have also been made in point cloud preparation and pre-processing proficiencies (e.g.,
3

Song et al., 2014; Zhang et al., 2016) in model generation methods (e.g., Bosché et al., 2015;
Díaz-Vilariño et al., 2015) and for semantic enrichment (Belsky et al., 2016; Hamledari et al.,
2017; Sacks et al., 2017). For example, by cloaking the geometry of an existing facility as
meshes, a model can mimic the real-life object and its exterior and interior surfaces with
millimeter accuracy. However, semantic information, such as functions, materials, volumes,
and topology, continues to present an immense challenge in as-built BIM generation.
Conventional approaches rely on ‘semantic segmentation’, which is a computer vision or
graphics technology that assigns each 3D point, or 2D pixel, to one of several semantic labels
(Shamir, 2008; Vezhnevets and Buhmann, 2010) via a priori rules-enabled reasoning models
(e.g., Valero et al., 2012; Chen et al., 2018b), and training example-enabled machine learning
models like deep learning (e.g., Babacan et al., 2017; Zou et al., 2017). Although these
approaches have achieved acceptable results on simple and regularly shaped components such
as walls, windows, pipelines, and boxes of internal walls (e.g., Valero et al., 2012; Babacan et
al., 2017; Nguyen and Choi, 2018; Zou et al., 2018), they have yet to satisfactorily deal with
complex scenes such as furniture, irregularly shaped components, and non-geometric
information (e.g., Koppula et al., 2011; Wang et al., 2018).

This paper contends that the inadequacies of conventional semantic segmentation approaches
are rooted in their methodology. The essence of semantic segmentation is to establish a
correlation model between the input geometries and the output semantic labels, such as
functions (e.g., OmniClass), materials, and invisible internal details (e.g., steel bars in a joint)
(see Shamir, 2008; Vezhnevets and Buhmann, 2010; Koppula et al., 2011). The ‘geometry-tolabel’ correlation models (i.e., a priori rules and trained machine learning models) are usually
sound and clear for simple and regularly shaped components. The labeled points can further
form 3D geometric primitives for volumetric objects (Martinovic et al., 2015; Zou et al., 2017;
2018). However, the segmentation of point clouds for uncontrolled real-world scenarios
featuring heterogeneous components is fundamentally challenging due to too many labels,
complex geometries, and complicated topologies (Andreopoulos and Tsotsos, 2013). In other
words, the correlation models (a priori rules, geometric features, or machine learning
techniques) are fundamentally constrained in labeling complex components.

There is also a missed opportunity from conventional methods, which disregard readily
available resources that could facilitate semantic enrichment. Existing methods can only
recognize limited semantics from the measurement data (e.g., 3D point clouds) concerning
4

geometric surfaces. However, information resources for 3D modeling and semantic enrichment
already exist in the form of numerous public and private BIM databases, such as the National
BIM Library (nationalbimlibrary.com; over 6,500 components), BIM Object (bimobject.com;
over 290,000 components), those maintained by producers (e.g., steelcase.com), localized
libraries (e.g., Lu et al., 2017), and private BIM databases actively maintained by developers
and contractors (HKHA, 2010; Chen et al., 2017). All these are actually missed resources that
could serve as credible BIM semantics sources for as-built BIM generation.

This paper reports a novel ‘semantic registration’ approach for automatic generation of
semantically rich as-built BIMs from 3D point clouds. This approach fundamentally differs
from existing semantic segmentation approaches in that it is segmentation free, capable of
processing complex scenes, and able to cleverly reuse existing information. The theoretical
stance of this approach is an extension of Xue et al. (2018a; 2018b), which formulate the task
of generating as-built BIMs from a given measurement as a constraint optimization problem to
reassemble candidate BIM components for the measurement. The remainder of this paper
comprises five sections. The second section reviews the relevant research on as-built BIM
generation and derivative-free optimization (DFO) applications in computing engineering. The
third section presents the proposed approach. The fourth describes the experimental tests of the
proposed approach in Autodesk Revit. Discussions concerning the advantages and
shortcomings of the proposed approach appear in the fifth section, and the sixth recapitulates
and concludes the study.

Literature review
Generation of as-built BIMs from 3D point clouds
The process involves first collecting and pre-processing a facility’s actual conditions as point
clouds. Numerous advanced non-contact sensing technologies are available for such data
collection. One can capture the measurements of a facility on foot with a handheld augmented
reality (AR) smartphone. For larger facilities, one can use a vehicle-borne light detection and
ranging (LiDAR) scanner, a consumer unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) or drone flown at low
altitude, fixed-wing aircraft-borne LiDAR at a high altitude, or interferometric synthetic
aperture radar (InSAR) at low Earth orbit (Tang et al., 2010; Zhu and Shahzad, 2014; Wang
et al., 2017). If the directly measured data exists as multiple 2D images, structure from motion
(SfM) or simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) can convert the images to 3D point
clouds by estimating the camera positions and fusing with 3D scenes (Snavely et al., 2008).
5

Equally numerous are the data-driven or model-driven methods researchers have developed to
generate as-built BIM from 3D point clouds (Shamir, 2008; Vezhnevets and Buhmann, 2010;
Xiong et al, 2013). Nevertheless, these data-driven and model-driven types of approaches
(Volk et al., 2014) both rely heavily on semantic segmentation requiring geometry-to-label
correlation models (e.g., based on rules or machine learning models). Examples of rule-based
models include random sample consensus (RANSAC) for planar components (Schnabel et al.,
2007; Lagüela et al., 2013; Jung et al., 2014), parametric curved surface components (Dimitrov
et al., 2016), geometric simplification such as voxelization (Aijazi et al., 2013; Zhu et al.,
2017), and asserted simple geometry (e.g., indoor boundary and rooftop primitives) from
intersection of planes (Valero et al., 2012; Chen et al., 2018b). Some approaches have
employed machine learning techniques for more complicated correlation models, like support
vector machines (SVM) (Adan and Huber, 2011; Koppula et al., 2011; Perez-Perez et al., 2016;
Wang et al., 2017) or convolutional neural networks (Babacan et al., 2017). Features such as
color from imagery (Quintana et al., 2018) and geometric metrics (e.g., key points) from
computer vision (Chen et al., 2018a; Wang et al., 2018) have been applied to enhance the
correlation models.

Nevertheless, the semantic segmentation methods are tedious, time-consuming, and in some
cases inaccurate, especially for complex scenes. For example, Koppula et al.’s (2011) SVM
model exhibited roughly 80% precision and 70% recall for ofﬁce point clouds, but only roughly
50% precision and 50% recall for homes. The deep learning model in Babacan et al. (2017)
succeeded in segmenting walls and floors with over 90% precision and 90% recall, but showed
unsatisfactory results for beams (40% precision) and doors (55% recall). Wang et al.’s (2018)
method was effective in segmenting chairs from dense point clouds (about 90% recall), but less
effective on sparse and noisy data (about 40% recall). In summary, the semantic segmentation
methods flounder when faced with the fundamental challenge of segmenting complex
components. Uncontrolled real-life environments characterized by diversity of labels, irregular
geometries, and topological relationships all make semantic segmentation even less
satisfactory (Andreopoulos and Tsotsos, 2013).

Registration of credible, available BIM components is a possible means of responding to this
difficulty. The concept of parametric 3D component registration emerged decades ago, for
example in computer-aided design (CAD) surface fitting in reverse engineering (Varady et al.,
6

1997), and has been practiced in modeling curved surfaces (e.g., Dimitrov et al., 2016),
pipelines (e.g., Bosché et al., 2014; Nguyen and Choi, 2018), secondary elements on walls
(e.g., Adán et al., 2018), and historic BIMs (e.g., Barazzetti, 2016). A well-known registration
algorithm is the iterated closest point (ICP). Kim et al. (2013) employed it to register an asplanned model to as-built point clouds. Sharif et al. (2017) used it to isolate the points of a
complex BIM component and remove clutter points. A notable merit of this approach is its
reuse of 3D geometry domain knowledge. Commercial software, e.g., IMAGINiT, PointFuse,
Floored, and many in-house solutions were developed for supporting such generic registration
approach. Yet, According to Bruno et al. (2018), there are only three technical papers on semiautomatic methods generating historic BIMs from point clouds and no paper on fully automatic
methods. The reason was that the automatic registration of BIM components used to be
confined by ineffective feature extraction and semantic segmentation (see Quattrini et al., 2015;
Andreopoulos and Tsotsos, 2013). A recent breakthrough is the segmentation-free registration
method in Xue et al. (2018a; 2018b), where the as-built BIM was generated by maximizing the
structural similarity (SSIM) index between the input 2D images and the 2D projections of the
BIM. Based on their problem formulation and semantic resources, complex components (e.g.,
furniture) became as easily recognizable as simple ones (e.g., walls). However, it is unclear
whether the segmentation-free, ‘semantic registration’ approach (Xue et al., 2018a; 2018b) can
be applied to 3D point clouds which, compared with 2D images, are generally noisier, bulkier,
and less supported by scientific software libraries. It is thus the primary aim of this paper to
advance a method that can automatically generate semantically rich as-built BIMs of complex
scenes from 3D point clouds.

Derivative-free optimization and its applications
Registration of BIM components is often formulated as a mathematical function to optimize
(e.g., Dimitrov et al., 2016; Xue et al., 2018a). The derivatives of a function universally contain
vital information for finding its best values (i.e., minimum or maximum). However, in the
problem of generating as-built BIMs from 3D point clouds the derivatives of objective
functions are impractical to obtain (Rios and Sahinidis, 2013). Derivative-free optimization
(DFO) is a class of nonlinear optimization that carries out optimization under such
circumstances (Conn et al., 2009). Examples of DFO applications include general pattern
search for protein structure prediction (Andreopoulos and Tsotsos, 2013) and surrogate
management frameworks for optimization of cardiovascular geometries in surgical planning
and treatment design (Marsden et al., 2008). CMA-ES (covariance matrix adaptation evolution
7

strategy) is another DFO algorithm that employs perturbations with expected values and an
iteratively updated covariance matrix to guide the search for global optimization (Rios and
Sahinidis, 2013); CMA-ES and its variants were proven among the most advanced algorithms
for solving noisy problems (Hansen et al., 2010). In construction and civil engineering, Kaveh
et al.’s (2011) applied CMA-ES for optimal design of a 26-story-tower space truss exhibited a
31% improvement in weight over a previous result by genetic algorithm, and Athanasiou et
al.’s (2011) CMA-ES for structural system identification in earthquake engineering saw a 53%
improvement from previous studies.

Xue et al. (2018b) applied the CMA-ES to as-built BIM generation and reconstructed an
outdoor scene of a demolished building and an indoor furniture scene with a root-mean-squareerror (RMSE) of 3.9 cm. However, several hours were spent generating the necessary small
BIMs, which feature just a few components, the major issue being the thousands of model
manipulations (e.g., creating, moving, rotating, scaling, and detecting components, while
projecting 3D BIM to 2D images) on commercial BIM platforms. Thus, there remains room
for improvement in efficiency of DFO algorithm application to as-built BIM generation.
Another aim of this paper, therefore, is to make a contribution to this methodology.

The ‘semantic registration’ method for automatic BIM generation
Problem formulation
Essentially, the semantic registration method is to recognize candidate BIM components from
3D point clouds, reassemble the components into a BIM, and register them with semantic
information from credible sources. In this formulation, the error between the as-built BIM and
the input 3D point cloud is the objective function to minimize. Mathematical methods like DFO
algorithms can automate the entire generation process. An overview of the formulation of the
as-built BIM generation is shown in Figure 1. The two inputs of the proposed approach, as
shown in Figure 1, are:
1) an input 3D point cloud Pin of m points (|| Pin || = m) which represents the as-is
conditions of a facility; and
2) a library of semantic BIM components (with both geometric and non-geometric
semantic information) and topologies.

8

Figure 1. A conceptual framework of the proposed semantic registration approach

During the automatic as-built BIM generation process, some information, such as location,
rotation, and topology, needs to be determined. This paper defines a tuple X of variables for
each (e.g., i-th) component instance in the as-built BIM:
Xi = (cl, l, s, r),

(1)

where cl is the family class of the component (e.g., a meeting table), l is the 3D location, s is
the 3D scaling, and r is the rotation which is usually around the z-axis (Note: some components
such as a door handle may use other axes). The solving of X is equivalent to the object
recognition in conventional segmentation-based methods. Other semantic information
including surface texture, producer, and market price can be directly registered to the as-built
BIM. Therefore, the output BIM is fully determined by X = {X1, X2, …, Xn}, which represents
a combination of all the parameters of n component instances, as shown in Figure 1. The
candidate components and their topologies can be quickly filtered by scene (e.g., “indoor” and
“office furniture”) before problem-solving to reduce the computational load. The input 3D
point cloud is the geometric reference frame for the as-built BIM.

The objective function f to minimize, in this paper, is the RMSE between the as-built BIM
(determined by X) and the input 3D point cloud. The accurate RMSE can be calculated by
computing the minimal distance to the as-built BIM for each point in the input cloud. However,
since there can be a huge number of points in a cloud and another huge number of “faces” in
an as-built BIM, the calculation of f is far too inefficient. In this paper, we first sample the
surface of the BIM to a point cloud PX with the same point density as the input cloud; so that
the RMSE can be approximated by computing the RMSE between PX and Pin, where |PX| ≈ |Pin|
= m. Furthermore, we sample both point clouds by the voxelization method, which is proven
effective for processing point clouds (Aijazi et al., 2013; Zhu et al., 2017), so that |P’X| ≈ |P’in|
9

= m’ ≪ m. Advanced spatial data structures, such as oct-trees, can guarantee the RMSE
computational time between P’X and P’in at O(m’ log m’) (Elseberg et al., 2013). Thus, we have
the objective function f in Figure 1 defined and approximately simplified as:
f(X) = RMSE(BIM(X), Pin )
≈ RMSE(PX , Pin )

(2)

≈ RMSE(P′X , P′in ) = �Σ𝑝𝑝∈P′in nndist2 (𝑝𝑝, P′X )⁄m′

≈ RMSE(P′in , P′X ) = �Σ𝑝𝑝∈P′X nndist2 (𝑝𝑝, P′in )�‖P′X ‖

= fX (X)

where BIM is the surface of BIM determined by X, nndist is the Euclidean distance between a
point and its nearest neighbor in another point cloud, and fX is the approximate objective
function. Eq. (2) implies that fX(X) ≈ f(X), where the P’X (down-sampled BIM surface) can be
accumulated through model generation, so that it is not necessary to repeatedly calculate the
whole BIM on commercial BIM platforms. As a result, the result of approximate objective (fX)
is very close to that of f, but fX is much easier to calculate than f.

The variables X to optimize are constrained by possible domains, topological requirements,
and conventions. An example of a topological requirement is that of a wheeled office chair
sitting on a horizontal plane. An example of a convention is that of an office chair location
likely to be next to a desk or table. Among the components, there exist a small group of
topological relationships such as adjacency (e.g., above, below, and next-to), separation,
containment, intersection, and connectivity (Nguyen et al., 2005). Thus, we can formulate the
constraints C in Figure 1 as:
C(X) = {CI(Xi)}∪{CR(Xi, Xj), i≠j},

(3)

where CI indicates the constraints on the parameters Xi of any i-th individual component, and
CR is the constraints on the topological relationships between any pair of (i-th, j-th)
components. Examples of the two groups of constraints can be found in Table 1.

10

Table 1. Example of constraints in the proposed formulation
C
Example
Example value
Notes
CI

CR

scaling_max

[2.0, 2.0, 1.5]

xyz coordinates

scaling_min

[0.5 0.5, 0.75]

Ibid.

z_rotation_max

2π

z_rotation_min

0

on_top_of

‘Ground’

Adjacency, connectivity

contains_on

‘Wall’

Containment or intersection

After the formulation of the variables X, objective function f, and constraints C, we have a
general form of the overall optimization problem of as-built BIM generation:
minimize f (X) = RMSE(BIM(X), Pin )
subject to C(X) ≤ 0.

(4)

Based on the popular optimization mechanisms in existing literature, Xue et al. (2018a)
proposed a one-by-one, incremental generation process. In such a process, the problem-solving
focuses on recognizing one component at a time and n incremental runs to complete the asbuilt BIM. An overall fine-tuning process of all the components after the incremental phase
has also proven helpful in improving accuracy of the as-built BIM.

Problem solving
Based on the COBIMG, which stands for constrained optimization-based BIM generator
(available at: https://github.com/ffxue/cobimg) software library (Xue et al., 2018b), the authors
developed the “COBIMG-Revit”, which is an automatic as-built BIM generation plugin for a
popular BIM platform (i.e., Autodesk Revit). Figure 2 shows the three major modules of
COBIMG-Revit. The first module, the core algorithm, is CMA-ES integrated in COBIMG.
The second module is a new module, i.e., the f(X) calculation based on Eq. (2), where the
functions of voxelization and kd-tree search are employed from PCL (point cloud library). The
third module is the component assembly (e.g. creation, hiding, movement, rotation, and surface
sampling of the as-built BIM) extended from COBIMG. The input components were a set of
annotated Revit component families. The COBIMG-Revit, encapsulated as a plugin, interacts
with Autodesk Revit via its C++ APIs and generates the as-built BIM in Revit project format.

11

Figure 2. Key modules, software libraries, and execution processes of COBIMG-Revit

Recognizing any i-th component is an automatic, iterative, trial-and-error procedure. As shown
in Figure 3, the three modules of COBIMG-Revit operate in the same sequence for each trial.
The trial starts from a feasible Xi that meets all the constraints. The component assembly
module decodes the values of Xi to Revit family class (cl), location (l), scaling (s), and rotation
(r). Then, the i-th component is modified (or created for the first trial) through Revit APIs
based on the decoded parameters. The surface of the updated as-built BIM with the modified
i-th component is sampled by the component assembly module to a point cloud PX. The next
module samples Pin and PX down with voxelization and returns the RMSE (i.e., f(Xi)), back to
the first module of core algorithms. Finally, the core algorithm CMA-ES updates its covariance
matrix and evolves its search strategy for succeeding trials.

12

Figure 3. Message sequence chart of the operations and interactions between the modules of
COBIMG-Revit in an individual trial

The incremental generation phase can be explained as follows. At the very beginning, the first
component is always an invisible Ground component, or a similar fundamental component,
which can be directly computed from the boundary of the input 3D point cloud. Therefore,
during the whole incremental generation phase, there are (i − 1) components already assembled
before the i-th component. A “parent” component, either Ground or one of the assembled
components, is sequentially selected to regulate a physical target area (e.g., a planar surface, a
linear joint, or a room space) and a topological relationship (see Table 1) for the i-th component
candidates to reside on. COBIMG-Revit then runs a few trials for each component candidate
for the least RMSE. After trial-and-error tests on all the possible candidates, the component
with the least RMSE is recognized as the i-th component in the as-built BIM. Meanwhile, the
topological relationship between the i-th component and its parent is also confirmed. In such
an incremental fashion, the whole BIM and its topology can be gradually built from the library
of Revit families.

The nature of the incremental generation implies an asymmetric precedence of recognition of
the n components in the as-built BIM. That is, the i-th component may influence the assembling
of the j-th component only if i < j; but not vice versa. The asymmetric precedence thus may
lead to a loss in accuracy of the as-built BIM. To complement the possible loss of accuracy, a
fine-tuning phase runs after the incremental generation. In this phase, the parameters of each
component, except for Ground, are re-optimized. If the re-optimization brings a better (i.e.,
13

less) RMSE, the BIM is changed based on the new parameters. The step-by-step fine-tuning
continues until a terminate condition (e.g., a time limit) is met. The output as-built BIM is a
project model (.rvt) in Revit.

Experiments
Experiment setting
An experiment was set to validate the proposed approach. The test case featured a noisy
laboratory scene filled with furniture (see Figure 4), for which recognition proved challenging
for traditional semantic segmentation approaches. The test scene consisted of two discussion
tables, a round table, two footstools and three wheeled chairs, one with high armrests and two
with low armrests. The 3D point cloud in Figure 4, with 194,813 points, was scanned by a
Google Tango smartphone (Model: Lenovo PB2-690Y). The smartphone manipulated an
infrared distance sensor and two cameras to estimate the indoor point cloud, which proved
noisy, as shown in Figure 4. The scanning took about 20 minutes and the pre-processing (i.e.,
registration and stitching) roughly 15 minutes. There is no semantic segmentation in the
experiments. The Revit families of the furniture, as listed in Table 2, were downloaded from
the producer’s website: steelcase.com. The research team spent about four minutes annotating
the Revit family (.rfa) with the CI and CR listed in Table 1. Figure 5 shows the graphic user
interface (GUI) of COBIMG-Revit encapsulated as a plugin of Autodesk Revit 2015
Educational 64-bit. The GUI of COBIMG-Revit consists of three parts: 1) an input point cloud,
2) a list of the Revit families (i.e. component candidates), 3) the as-built BIM generation panel.

Figure 4. An indoor furniture scene with 194,813 noisy points scanned by a smartphone
14

Table 2. A list of the annotated semantic BIM components
Model of

FlipTop Twin

Groupwork

Think V2

Think V2

B-Free

component

Table

Coffee Table

chair (high

chair (low

footstool

armrest)

armrest)

3D view of
component
(screenshot
in Revit)
CI

smin, smax, rmin, and rmax

CR

on_top_of = Ground

Semantics

OmniClass number, manufacturer, model, materials, style number, product, website,

from family

product line, release date, cost, assembly code, assembly description, etc.

Figure 5. The user interface of COBIMG-Revit (on Revit 2015 Educational 64-bit)

15

The experiments were conducted at a workstation with two Intel XEON E5-2690 v4 CPUs
(2.6GHz, 28 cores, 56 logical processors), 64 GB memory, and Windows 10 Enterprise 64-bit
operating system. The invisible Ground was set to match the boundary of x and y of the input
point cloud in Figure 4, with z = 0. The two major parameters of the proposed approach, as
formulated in Sections 3.2 and 3.3, are the size of the voxel grid and the number of trials by
CMA-ES per component (see the GUI in Figure 5). The size of the voxel grid was set in ten
values from 1 cm to 10 cm in a linear order; while the number of trials was set in 10 values
from 10 to 10,000 (104) in exponential order. COBIMG-Revit was also tested in a different
number of threads to evaluate the acceleration by parallel computing. The team also tested the
most popular point cloud registration algorithm ICP (see Kim et al. 2013; Sharif et al. 2017)
for a comparison. We tested a number of variants of ICP, and selected one variant starting from
random locations in parallel for a correct output. The number of the iterations of ICP was set
to be equal to the number of trials of COBIMG-Revit.

Experimental results
The results of the experimental tests under different parameter settings, as shown in Figure 6,
confirmed that the COBIMG-Revit was sensitive to the two parameters. Figure 6 shows three
sets of experimental results (i.e., the number of correct components, the objective function, and
the time cost in 56 threads) and a trade-off analysis from the tests under 100 configurations of
the two parameters. Figure 6 (a) demonstrates that more trials generally led to more correct asbuilt BIMs when the grid size (i.e., resolution) was not too large (e.g., ≤ 8 cm); while in Figure
6 (b), f (RMSE) which was closely associated with correctness of components, showed a
similar pattern. The trend on time cost in Figure 6 (c) shows that more trials and smaller grid
size led to more computation time. The trade-off analysis in Figure 6 (d) shows that there exists
an intersection of effectiveness (e.g., f < 5 cm, above the dashed polyline) and efficiency (e.g.,
< 10.5 s, below the curve of 10.5 s) for configuring the parameters. For instance, the research
team selected a grid size of 5 cm and 500 trials for the test case.

16

(a) The number of correct components (Note: (b) The objective function (Note: lower is
higher is better)
better)

(c) The time cost (Note: in log10, i.e., lower is (d) A trade-off analysis
better)
Figure 6. Experimental results of different parameter settings and a trade-off analysis on
accuracy versus time cost of as-built BIM generation by COBIMG-Revit
Details of the problem-solving procedure by COBIMG-Revit are shown in Figure 7, with the
selected grid size as 5 cm and 500 trials per component. The objective function f descended
steadily from about 100 cm in the beginning when the as-built BIM was almost empty. When
more and more components were incrementally added to the BIM, the two curves of f and fX
in Eq. (2), gradually approached one another; the convergence of the curves confirmed that the
approximation in Eq. (2) is sound and effective. The incremental generation phase ended in
3.09 seconds after searching for the 9-th component in vain (no component had sufficient
support of points). The result of the incremental generation phase was a BIM with 8
17

components on the Ground (f = 4.26 cm). The fine-tuning phase further improved the objective
function down to f = 3.87 cm in 3.36 seconds by slightly changing the positions and rotations
of the components, while the overall topology and the big picture of the as-built BIM remained
the same. The overall time amounted to a sheer 6.44 seconds, and the output as-built BIM was
saved as a Revit project (see Figure 8 (a)). A visual comparison in Figure 8 (b) shows that the
output as-built BIM well matched the input 3D point cloud. In addition, the ground truth 3D
presentations offered by the producer overcame to a considerable extent the noise present in
the input, as shown in Figure 8 (b). In contrast, Figure 8 (c) shows the BIM generated by the
ICP algorithm in 30.1s. There were five correct components and four wrong furniture as
highlighted in Figure 8 (c). It can be seen that one FlipTop Twin table was mistakenly modeled
as two Groupwork Coffee tables; the other fault was the two chairs with low armrests were
registered as those with high armrests. Figure 8 (d) shows a top view of the point cloud and the
BIM by ICP. The RMSE in Figure 8 (d) was 4.76 cm. In summary, the proposed COBIMGRevit outperformed the well-known ICP algorithm in terms of correctness, geometric accuracy,
and time cost.

Figure 7. A typical problem-solving process of COBIMG-Revit (Parameters: grid size = 5
cm, 500 trials per component)

18

(a) A screenshot of the 3D view of the output asbuilt BIM

(b) A visual comparison between the
input (grey points) and the output BIM

(c) A screenshot of the BIM generated by ICP
(time = 30.1s, consisting of 4 wrong furniture)

(d) A visual comparison between the
input (grey points) and the BIM
generated by ICP (RMSE = 4.76 cm)
Figure 8. Comparison of the generated as-built BIMs by COBIMG-Revit and ICP (Note: grid
size = 5 cm, 500 trials per component, the wrong components are highlighted in blue)

The COBIMG-Revit then registered semantic information into the as-built BIM shown in
Figure 8 (a). Figure 9 illustrates the properties of a B-Free footstool in the as-built BIM. The
left window in Figure 9 shows the footstool’s properties, including “COBIMG_translation”,
“COBIMG_rotation”, and topological relationships (e.g., “COBIMG_parent”). The right
window in Figure 9 shows the ‘type’ properties that contain the semantic information registered
from the producer’s online library (e.g., manufacturer, model, materials, style number, product
19

line, release date, assembly code, and assembly description). In fact, most of the registered
properties were almost impossible to segment using the conventional approaches relying on
rule-based and machine learning-based correlation models.

Figure 9. A screenshot of the semantic information in the as-built BIM
Parameters analysis
The team applied Pearson’s bivariate correlation tests to evaluate the sensitivity of the two
parameters of COBIMG-Revit (see Figure 6). Table 3 lists the results on the number of correct
components, f, and time cost computed by IBM SPSS (version 24.0). It shows that the voxel
grid size prompts a strong negative correlation to computation time (i.e., the greater the grid
size, the less computation time), and no significant correlation to the number of correct
components or f. In comparison, the number of trials has significant correlations with all three
indicators (i.e., a very strong positive correlation with the correct components, a very strong
negative correlation with f, and a strong positive correlation with the time cost). The analytical
results suggest: 1) the voxelization can efficiently reduce the time cost without significant loss
of accuracy in f (and a decrease in the number of correct components); 2) the number of trials
per component should be large enough (e.g., 500 or above) for accurate as-built BIM
generation.

20

Table 3. Pearson’s correlations between the two parameters and the three algorithmic
performance indicators (N = 100)
No. of correct

f (cm)

components

Time cost (s, in
log10)

Pearson cor.

-0.111

0.109

-0.656**

Sig. (2-tailed)

0.270

0.282

0.000

No. of trials per

Pearson cor.

0.904**

-0.823**

0.690**

component (in log10)

Sig. (2-tailed)

0.000

0.000

0.000

Grid size (cm)

**: Correlation is significant at 0.001 level (2-tailed).

The number of threads were also tested to evaluate the acceleration from multi-threading
parallel computing. As shown in Figure 10, the overall time cost decreased, almost log-linearly,
from about 70 seconds to 8 seconds while the number of threads increased from 1 to 14 (i.e.,
the number of the physical cores in one test CPU). There was a slight increase in time when
the number of threads went beyond a single CPU due to the operational system (e.g., the load
balancing of multiple CPUs). On two CPUs (i.e., with more than 14 threads), the time cost
decreased log-linearly again. The curve in Figure 10 confirmed that COBIMG-Revit can make
good use of the parallel computing hardware acceleration from everyday computers to highend enterprise workstations.

Figure 10. The computation time of COBIMG-Revit by multi-threading parallel computing
21

A comparison with manual modeling
The rationale of the semantic registration approach resembles closely the ‘logo-stacking’ style
of a manual as-built modeling process. To compare accuracy and efficiency of the two
approaches, the team invited three volunteer modelers with divergent levels of experience in
Autodesk Revit to undertake manual modeling tests. The input 3D point cloud and the Revit
family types were preloaded in the BIM software, and each modeler was required to select and
adjust the furniture components to their correct locations (x and y) and rotations (around z),
while the furniture components were placed on the default floor (z = 0) automatically in Revit.
The modelers received a three-minute training course before they began. Table 4 lists the
correctness, RMSE, and time cost of the three manually made as-built BIMs. In accuracy,
COBIMG-Revit’s output model ranked second after the model developed by the most
experienced modeler. The modeling speed of COBIMG-Revit, however, was about 50 times
that of the modelers. Although ICP was also faster than manual modelers, it failed to generate
an accurate and correct BIM. COBIMG-Revit, as an automate approach, thus successfully
addresses the challenges of manual modelling (e.g. tedium, slowness, and inaccuracy).

Table 4. The results of three manual as-built BIM generations, where the best value in each
column is in bold
Modeler No.

Experience

Correctness (out of 8)

RMSE (cm)

Time cost (s)

1

Expert (3 years)

8

3.79

363.9

2

Average (1 year)

8

3.90

335.4

3

Beginner

8

4.22

691.1

COBIMG-Revit

8

3.87

6.44

ICP

5

4.76

30.1

Scalability tests
To test the scalability of the proposed approach, a cloud (about 1.9 million points) of 293
auditorium chairs, as shown in Figure 11 (a), from the Stanford 2D-3D-S dataset (Armeni et
al., 2017) was selected according to the segmentation predefined in the dataset. Unlike the
completeness in the office scene, there existed a low level of occlusion and clutters in the
auditorium scene. There is no semantic segmentation in the experiments, either. As shown in
Figure 11 (b), the ground at the rear area was about 1.0m higher than that in the front. Two
22

BIM

components,

‘Theater

Chair’

and

‘Fixed

Chair’,

were

downloaded

from

3DWarehouse.com, and then annotated. Apart from the topological relationship settings in
Table 1, the translation over z-axis (lz) was allowed from 0m to 1.0m in the annotation. The
grid size of COBIMG-Revit was 5 cm; the number of trials was set to 5,000 due to an extra
freedom on the z-axis; the multi-threading parallel computing was enabled. Each component
was tested in an independent experiment because all the chairs were known identical.

(a) A cloud of 1,879,282 points of chairs in the
“Area_2 Auditorium_2” instance in the Stanford
2D-3D-S dataset (the zoomed area shows the
occlusion and clutters)

(b) The height ramp of the point cloud
(i.e., rear chairs are about 1.0m higher)

(c) ‘Theater Chair’ (author: AJ)
(d) ‘Fixed Chair’ (author: Veronica S.)
Figure 11. An auditorium scene of 293 identical theater chairs and two chair components

The COBIMG-Revit generated an output BIM as shown in Figures 12 (a) and (b) using the
‘Theater Chair’ component. As listed in Table 5, the output BIM consisted of 288 chairs, with
an RMSE = 8.10 cm, and was saved as a 1.83 MB Revit project file. The other BIM, as shown
in Figures 12 (c) and (d), were generated using the ‘Fixed Chair’ component with an RMSE =
9.15 cm. Figures 12 (b) and (d) show the comparisons with the input point cloud from the top
view, where the major part of the input was correctly registered to chairs in both BIMs, the
23

false positive (with wrong location or rotation) chairs are highlighted, and the false negative
(undetected) chairs are in circles. It can be found from Table 5 that the output BIM resembled
the furniture setup of the auditorium scene using different components. The latter BIM had
better precision and recall, but the first BIM had smaller RMSE, geometric error, and angular
error. According to the objective function, e.g., Eq. (2), the BIM in Figure 12 (a) was selected
as the output BIM from the noisy input.

(a) Screenshot of the BIM consisting of 288
‘Theater Chairs’ (RMSE = 8.10cm, time
=1,434.2s)

(b) Top view of (a) (false positive
highlighted, false negative in circles)

(c) Screenshot of the second BIM consisting of
(d) Top view of (c) (false positive
312 ‘Fixed Chairs’ (RMSE = 9.15cm, time =
highlighted, false negative in circles)
1,538.3s)
Figure 12. Comparison of the BIMs using the ‘Theater Chair’ and another BIM using ‘Fixed
Chair’

24

Table 5. Comparison of the auditorium BIM generation using different component (better value
in each row in bold)
Evaluation

‘Theater Chair’

Time (s)

‘Fixed Chair’

1,434.2

1,538.3

RMSE (cm)

8.10

9.15

Number of chairs

288

312

Output file size (MB)

1.83

2.19

Mean

15.2

15.8

Std. dev.

7.7

8.6

Mean

17.6

19.7

Std. dev.

28.8

34.6

Precision (%)

81.9

84.3

Recall (%)

80.5

89.8

F1 (%)

81.2

87.0

Centroid distance error (cm)

Angular error (°)

Table 6 lists the detailed confusion matrix of the chairs in the two output BIMs in Figure 12.
The metrics of the first output BIM can be calculated by:
Precision = True positive / Number of chairs in BIM = 236 / 288 = 81.9%
Recall = True positive / Ground truth number of chairs = 236 / 293 = 80.5%

(5)

F1 = 2 × Precision × Recall / (precision + Recall) = 81.2%
In Figure 12 and Table 6, there were 36 chairs generated in wrong positions, 16 chairs in correct
positions but wrong directions. One reason of the incorrect positive is the exclusion of using
repeated patterns of the chairs (e.g., Wang et al. 2018), while another is the noise in the input
point cloud leading to the errors, as shown in the zoomed box in Figure 11 (a). The average
time for generating a chair was about 5.0 seconds, considerably increased from the less than 1
second in the indoor office scene due to the increased number of trials. Overall, the satisfactory
results of the test and the inexpensive computational time validate that the proposed ‘semantic
registration’ approach is scalable to large-scale point clouds. Thanks to the embedded
knowledge in the BIM components and the advanced DFO algorithms, the output BIM also
outperformed many conventional semantic segmentation methods, e.g., Armeni et al. (2017),
to achieve a 16.5% precision in the point-level – rather than the component level in this paper
– classification of chairs.

25

Table 6. A confusion matrix of the generated chairs in the generated BIM by COBIMG-Revit
Evaluation

‘Theater Chair’

‘Fixed Chair’

Chairs

Not a chair

Chairs

Not a chair

Positive position and rotation

236

10

263

12

Positive position but negative rotation

16

-

13

-

Negative position (error > 25cm*)

36

-

36

-

Subtotal

288

10

312

12

(error > 45°)

*: 25cm is a quarter of the diagonal of the target chair

Discussion
In contrast to conventional approaches dependent on semantic segmentation, the presented
approach offers several advantages:
1) Complex building components can be accurately modeled via 3D point clouds, even atop
noisy point clouds. In addition, the noise in the input point cloud considerably improves with
the ground truth 3D presentations, as a part of the geometric semantics, from credible sources
like the producer’s library. Accuracy of the model generated using the proposed approach was
close to that of manual models.
2) The proposed approach can be applied to simple and regularly shaped components.
Although the efficiency may not be comparable with conventional segmentation approaches,
it can include any pre-defined BIM components in Eq. (2).
3) The whole as-built BIM generation process is fully automatic. In conventional
approaches, human modelers are still required to post-process the segmentation results (e.g.,
Jung et al., 2014).
4) Rich semantic information can be registered from credible semantic resources to produce
a semantically rich as-built BIM. Computer programs can reuse semantic information from
existing BIM resources for value-added applications.
5) Preparation of geometry-to-label correlation models, such as retrieval of rules from
experts and collection of training examples for machine learning techniques, is not needed.
Instead, credible and available BIM resources represent the domain knowledge for as-built
BIM generation in the proposed approach.

26

6) The proposed approach boasts a high level of efficiency. By harnessing the power of
parallel computing, such an efficient approach could promote wider use of as-built BIM within
the AECO industry and inspire assorted smart city applications.

Despite its many merits, the proposed approach also has its shortcomings:
1) The proposed approach relies on structured BIM knowledge such as external sources, the
geometric details, and the embedded semantics of BIM components and annotated topological
requirements. For example, oversimplified BIM components (e.g., a box model of wheeled
chair) that considerably changes the 5-cm sampled surface points may lead to inaccuracy in
geometry and incorrect BIMs.
2) If the two mechanisms (i.e., surface sampling and voxel-based down-sampling) are not
configured correctly, the fidelity of the output as-built BIM can be undermined, as shown in
Figures 6 (a) and (b). A trade-off exists between speed and accuracy in as-built BIM generation,
as shown in Figure 6 (d).
3) Although similar BIM components can come close to an approximated BIM (see Figures
11 and 12), the approach may not work on unique and tailor-made components due to its
reliance on availability of BIM components. The approach may not work on scenes under
heavy occlusion and distortion due to the unavailable geometric data.
4) The approach is yet to make good use of the ‘instance parameters’ in prevailing BIM
software (e.g., Revit) to determine more accurate semantics such as the exact height of the
armrest and its family class, location, and rotation.
5) The approach is yet to utilize 3D point color and texture information to determine more
accurate semantics. It should also be noted that the infrared and laser scanned 3D point clouds
usually do not represent reflective surfaces such as glass and waterbody; thus the surfaces with
materials of glass and water in the components should be separated in the sampling process of
the approach.
6) The overall computational time of the presented approach, as formulated in Section 3.2,
grows at least in a linear relation to the number n of components.
7) The experiments in this paper are for a relatively complex scene but it needs to be scaled
up in future studies, e.g., including all the building elements such as walls, floors, and columns
as well as the possible patterns of their formations.

27

Conclusion
This paper presents a DFO-based ‘semantic registration’ approach for automatic generation of
semantically rich as-built BIMs from 3D point clouds. This approach builds upon previous
DFO-based approaches by exploiting 3D point clouds in prevailing BIM platform Revit, and
by polishing the algorithms behind the application. The task of generating as-built BIMs is
formulated to a constrained optimization problem by minimizing the error between the output
BIM and the input 3D point clouds. The formulated problem is simplified by sampling the BIM
surface and voxelization of the point clouds, and a well-known DFO algorithm, CMA-ES, is
applied to solve the formulated and simplified problem. The BIM resulting from experiments
on a noisy point cloud of an indoor furniture scene was accurate (RMSE = 3.87 cm), efficient
(time = 6.44 s), and consisted of rich semantic information (e.g., materials, product line, and
assembly code) registered from the manufacturer’s library. The approach was also proved
scalable for modeling large-scale point clouds.

This paper offers a trifold contribution to the BIM and computing engineering communities. It
presents the first semantic registration approach for as-built BIM generation from 3D point
clouds. Unlike the a priori rules or machine learning methods of predominant semantic
segmentation schemes, the presented approach exploits available, credible semantic BIM
resources to handle simple to complex scenes. Secondly, the presented DFO-based semantic
registration approach is highly accurate and efficient in processing noisy complex point clouds
and reusing public and private BIM resources. This paper also improves upon Xue et al.’s
(2018a; 2018b) methodology (e.g., the time length of the experiment dramatically dropped
from a few hours to a few seconds). In summary, the semantic registration approach presented
here is superior to existing segmentation approaches in several ways: it is segmentation free,
capable of processing complex scenes, and able to cleverly apply existing information for 3D
modeling and semantic enrichment.

The innovative approach reported in this paper opens new avenues for professionals in the built
environment and development field. Architects and designers, construction crews and
engineers, facilities managers and conservationists can contribute to the realization of truly
smart cities. It offers global business leaders and developers a more expedient and quality tool
for creating semantically rich BIMs/CIMs. The proposed approach suggests that inexpensive
data sources can be effectively and efficiently exploited to produce models of complex scenes
and is a potential game-changer in the competitive landscape of BIM/CIM. The research team
28

recommends further studies follow to examine the applicability of the approach to other scenes,
and its applicability on a wider, possible urban scale.

Acknowledgements
This study was supported by a grant from the Hong Kong Research Grant Council (GRF
HKU17201717) and two grants from The University of Hong Kong (201702159013,
201711159016). We would like to thank the reviewers for their insightful comments and
suggestions on improving the quality of the paper.

References
Adan, A. & Huber, D. (2011), 3D reconstruction of interior wall surfaces under occlusion and
clutter. In 2011 International Conference on 3D Imaging, Modeling, Processing,
Visualization and Transmission (3DIMPVT 2011), 275-281, Hangzhou, China.
doi:10.1109/3DIMPVT.2011.42
Adán, A., Quintana, B., Prieto, S. A., & Bosché, F. (2018). Scan-to-BIM for ‘secondary’
building components. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 37, 119-138.
Aijazi, A. K., Checchin, P., & Trassoudaine, L. (2013). Segmentation based classification of
3D urban point clouds: A super-voxel based approach with evaluation. Remote Sensing,
5(4), 1624-1650.
Andreopoulos, A., & Tsotsos, J. K. (2013). 50 years of object recognition: Directions forward.
Computer Vision and Image Understanding, 117(8), 827-891.
Armeni, I., Sax, S., Zamir, A. R., & Savarese, S. (2017). Joint 2D-3D-semantic data for indoor
scene understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.01105.
Athanasiou, A., De Felice, M., Oliveto, G. & Oliveto, P. S. (2011). Evolutionary algorithms
for the identification of structural systems in earthquake engineering. In Proceedings of
the International Conference on Evolutionary Computation Theory and Applications Volume 1: ECTA, (IJCCI 2011), 52-62. doi:10.5220/0003672900520062
Babacan, K., Chen, L. & Sohn, G. (2017). Semantic Segmentation of Indoor Point Clouds
Using Convolutional Neural Network. ISPRS Annals of Photogrammetry, Remote
Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences, IV-4/W4, 101-108.
Barazzetti, L. (2016). Parametric as-built model generation of complex shapes from point
clouds. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 30(3), 298-311.
Belsky, M., Sacks, R., & Brilakis, I. (2016). Semantic enrichment for building information
modeling. Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering, 31(4), 261-274.
29

Bosché, F., Ahmed, M., Turkan, Y., Haas, C. T. & Haas, R. (2015), The value of integrating
Scan-to-BIM and Scan-vs-BIM techniques for construction monitoring using laser
scanning and BIM: The case of cylindrical MEP components. Automation in Construction,
49, 201-213.
Bosché, F., Guillemet, A., Turkan, Y., Haas, C. T., & Haas, R. (2014). Tracking the built status
of MEP works: Assessing the value of a Scan-vs-BIM system. Journal of Computing in
Civil Engineering, 28(4), 05014004.
Bruno, S., De Fino, M., & Fatiguso, F. (2018). Historic Building Information Modelling:
performance assessment for diagnosis-aided information modelling and management.
Automation in Construction, 86, 256-276.
Chen, J., Fang, Y., & Cho, Y. K. (2018a). Performance evaluation of 3D descriptors for object
recognition in construction applications. Automation in Construction, 86, 44-52.
Chen, K., Lu, W., Wang, H., Niu, Y., & Huang, G. G. (2017). Naming objects in BIM: A
convention and a semiautomatic approach. Journal of Construction Engineering and
Management, 143(7), 06017001.
Chen, K., Lu, W., Xue, F., Tang, P., & Li, L. H. (2018b). Automatic building information
model reconstruction in high-density urban areas: Augmenting multi-source data with
architectural knowledge. Automation in Construction, 93(9), 22-34..
Conn, A. R., Scheinberg, K., & Vicente, L. N. (2009). Introduction to derivative-free
optimization (MPS-SIAM series on optimization), vol. 8, Philadelphia, PA, USA: SIAM.
Díaz-Vilariño, L., Conde, B., Lagüela, S. & Lorenzo, H. (2015), Automatic detection and
segmentation of columns in as-built buildings from point clouds. Remote Sensing, 7(11),
15651-15667.
Dimitrov, A., Gu, R. & Golparvar‐Fard, M. (2016), Non‐uniform B‐spline surface fitting from
unordered 3D point clouds for as‐built modeling. Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure
Engineering, 31(7), 483-498.
Eastman, C. M., Eastman, C., Teicholz, P., & Sacks, R. (2011). BIM handbook: A guide to
building information modeling for owners, managers, designers, engineers and
contractors, 2nd Edition. John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken, New Jersey, USA.
Elseberg, J., Borrmann, D., & Nüchter, A. (2013). One billion points in the cloud–an octree for
efficient processing of 3D laser scans. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote
Sensing, 76, 76-88.

30

Hamledari, H., Rezazadeh Azar, E. & McCabe, B. (2017). IFC-based development of as-built
and as-is BIMs using construction and facility inspection data: Site-to-BIM data transfer
automation. Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, 32(2), 04017075.
Hansen, N., Auger, A., Ros, R., Finck, S. & Pošík, P. (2010). Comparing results of 31
algorithms from the black-box optimization benchmarking BBOB-2009. In Proceedings
of the 12th Annual Conference Companion on Genetic and Evolutionary Computation,
1689-1696. doi:10.1145/1830761.1830790
HKHA (Hong Kong Housing Authority) (2010). Building Information Modelling (BIM)
Library Components Reference. Hong Kong.
Jung, J., Hong, S., Jeong, S., Kim, S., Cho, H., Hong, S., & Heo, J. (2014). Productive modeling
for development of as-built BIM of existing indoor structures. Automation in
Construction, 42, 68-77.
Kaveh, A., Kalateh-Ahani, M. & Masoudi, M. S. (2011). The CMA evolution strategy based
size optimization of truss structures. International Journal of Optimization in Civil
Engineering, 1(2), 233-56.
Kim, C., Son, H., & Kim, C. (2013). Automated construction progress measurement using a
4D building information model and 3D data. Automation in Construction, 31, 75-82.
Koppula, H. S., Anand, A., Joachims, T. & Saxena, A. (2011). Semantic labeling of 3D point
clouds for indoor scenes. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 24, 244252. Available at: http://papers.nips.cc/paper/4226-semantic-labeling-of-3d-point-cloudsfor-indoor-scenes.pdf
Lagüela, S., Díaz-Vilariño, L., Martínez, J. & Armesto, J. (2013). Automatic thermographic
and RGB texture of as-built BIM for energy rehabilitation purposes. Automation in
Construction, 31, 230-240.
Lu, W., Chen, K., Wang, J., & Xue, F. (2017). Developing an open access BIM objects library:
A Hong Kong study. In Lean and Computing in Construction Congress-Volume 1:
Proceedings of the Joint Conference on Computing in Construction. Heriot-Watt
University. doi:10.24928/JC3-2017/0254
Lu, W., Peng, Y., Xue, F., Chen, K., Niu, Y., & Chen, X. (2018). The fusion of GIS and
Building Information Modeling for big data analytics in managing development sites, in
Comprehensive Geographic Information Systems, Elsevier, 345-359. doi:10.1016/B9780-12-409548-9.09677-9

31

Marsden, A. L., Feinstein, J. A., & Taylor, C. A. (2008). A computational framework for
derivative-free optimization of cardiovascular geometries. Computer Methods in Applied
Mechanics and Engineering, 197(21-24), 1890-1905.
Martinovic, A., Knopp, J., Riemenschneider, H., & Van Gool, L. (2015). 3D all the way:
Semantic segmentation of urban scenes from start to end in 3D. In the 2015 IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR 2015), 4456-4465.
Boston, MA, USA. doi: 10.1109/CVPR.2015.7299075
National Institute of Building Sciences (NIBS). (2015). National Building Information
Modeling Standard. Version 3, Retrieved from https://www.nationalbimstandard.org/
Nguyen, C. H. P., & Choi, Y. (2018). Comparison of point cloud data and 3D CAD data for
on-site dimensional inspection of industrial plant piping systems. Automation in
Construction, 91, 44-52.
Nguyen, T. H., Oloufa, A. A. & Nassar, K. (2005). Algorithms for automated deduction of
topological information. Automation in Construction, 14, 59-70.
Nicosia, G. & Stracquadanio, G. (2008). Generalized pattern search algorithm for peptide
structure prediction. Biophysical Journal, 95(10), 4988-4999.
Pătrăucean, V., Armeni, I., Nahangi, M., Yeung, J., Brilakis, I. & Haas, C. (2015). State of
research in automatic as-built modelling. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 29(2), 162171.
Perez-Perez, Y., Golparvar-Fard, M. & El-Rayes, K. (2016). Semantic and geometric labeling
for enhanced 3D point cloud segmentation. In Proceedings of Construction Research
Congress 2016, 2542-2552. doi:10.1061/9780784479827.253
Quattrini, R., Malinverni, E. S., Clini, P., Nespeca, R., & Orlietti, E. (2015). From TLS to
HBIM. High quality semantically-aware 3D modeling of complex architecture.
International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing & Spatial Information
Sciences, XL-5/W4, 367-374. doi: 10.5194/isprsarchives-XL-5-W4-367-2015.
Quintana, B., Prieto, S. A., Adán, A. & Bosché, F. (2018). Door detection in 3D coloured point
clouds of indoor environments. Automation in Construction, 85, 146-166.
Rios, L. M., & Sahinidis, N. V. (2013). Derivative-free optimization: a review of algorithms
and comparison of software implementations. Journal of Global Optimization, 56(3),
1247-1293.
Sacks, R., Ma, L., Yosef, R., Borrmann, A., Daum, S. & Kattel, U. (2017). Semantic
enrichment for building information modeling: Procedure for compiling inference rules
32

and operators for complex geometry. Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, 31(6),
04017062.
Schnabel, R., Wahl, R. & Klein, R. (2007), Efficient RANSAC for point-cloud shape detection.
Computer Graphics Forum, 26(2), 214-226. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8659.2007.01016.x
Shamir, A. (2008). A survey on mesh segmentation techniques. Computer Graphics Forum,
27(6), 1539-1556
Sharif, M. M., Nahangi, M., Haas, C., & West, J. (2017). Automated Model‐Based Finding of
3D Objects in Cluttered Construction Point Cloud Models. Computer‐Aided Civil and
Infrastructure Engineering, 32(11), 893-908.
Snavely, N., Seitz, S. M. & Szeliski, R. (2008). Modeling the world from internet photo
collections. International Journal of Computer Vision, 80(2), 189-210.
Song, M., Shen, Z. & Tang, P. (2014), Data quality-oriented 3D laser scan planning. In
Proceedings

of

Construction

Research

Congress

2014,

984-993.

doi:10.1061/9780784413517.101
Tang, P., Huber, D., Akinci, B., Lipman, R. & Lytle, A. (2010). Automatic reconstruction of
as-built building information models from laser-scanned point clouds: A review of related
techniques. Automation in Construction, 19(7), 829-843.
Valero, E., Adán, A. & Cerrada, C. (2012). Automatic method for building indoor boundary
models from dense point clouds collected by laser scanners. Sensors, 12(12), 1609916115.
Varady, T., Martin, R. R., & Cox, J. (1997). Reverse engineering of geometric models—an
introduction. Computer-Aided Design, 29(4), 255-268.
Vezhnevets, A., & Buhmann, J. M. (2010). Towards weakly supervised semantic segmentation
by means of multiple instance and multitask learning. In 2010 IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR 2010), 3249-3256, San Francisco, CA,
USA. doi:10.1109/CVPR.2010.5540060
Volk, R., Stengel, J., & Schultmann, F. (2014). Building Information Modeling (BIM) for
existing buildings—Literature review and future needs. Automation in Construction, 38,
109-127.
Wang, J., Wu, Q., Remil, O., Yi, C., Guo, Y., & Wei, M. (2018). Modeling indoor scenes with
repetitions from 3D raw point data. Computer-Aided Design, 94, 1-15.
Wang, Q., Cheng, J. C. & Sohn, H. (2017). Automated estimation of reinforced precast
concrete rebar positions using colored laser scan data. Computer‐Aided Civil and
Infrastructure Engineering, 32, 787-802.
33

Xiong, X., Adan, A., Akinci, B., & Huber, D. (2013). Automatic creation of semantically rich
3D building models from laser scanner data. Automation in Construction, 31, 325-337.
Xue, F., Chen, K., Liu, D., Niu, Y., & Lu, W. S. (2018a). An optimization-based semantic
building model generation method with a pilot case of a demolished construction. In
Proceedings of the 21st International Symposium on Advancement of Construction
Management and Real Estate, 231-241. Springer, Singapore. doi:10.1007/978-981-106190-5_22
Xue, F., Lu, W., & Chen, K. (2018b). Automatic generation of semantically rich as-built
building information models using 2D images: A derivative-free optimization approach.
Computer-Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering, In Press. doi: 10.1111/mice.12378
Zhang, C., Kalasapudi, V. S. & Tang, P. (2016). Rapid data quality oriented laser scan planning
for dynamic construction environments. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 30(2), 218232.
Zhu, Q., Li, Y., Hu, H., & Wu, B. (2017). Robust point cloud classification based on multilevel semantic relationships for urban scenes. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and
Remote Sensing, 129, 86-102.
Zhu, X. X. & Shahzad, M. (2014). Facade reconstruction using multiview spaceborne
TomoSAR point clouds. IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 52(6),
3541-3552.
Zou, C., Colburn, A., Shan, Q., & Hoiem, D. (2018). LayoutNet: Reconstructing the 3D Room
Layout from a Single RGB Image. In the 2018 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR 2018), 2051-2059. Salt Lake City, USA. In press.
Zou, C., Yumer, E., Yang, J., Ceylan, D., & Hoiem, D. (2017). 3D-PRNN: Generating shape
primitives with recurrent neural networks. In 2017 IEEE International Conference on
Computer Vision (ICCV), 2, 900-909. Venice, Italy. doi: 10.1109/ICCV.2017.103

34

