Computer-Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering

Automatic generation of semantically rich as-built
building information models using 2D images: A
derivative-free optimization approach
Fan Xue, Weisheng Lu* & Ke Chen
Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong Kong SAR
This is the peer reviewed version of the following article:
Xue, F., Lu, W., & Chen, K. (2018). Automatic Generation of Semantically Rich As‐Built Building Information
Models Using 2D Images: A Derivative‐Free Optimization Approach. Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure
Engineering. 33(11), 926-942. Doi: 10.1111/mice.12378
which has been published in final form at https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/mice.12378. This article may be use
for non-commercial purposes in accordance with Wiley Terms and Conditions for Use of Self-Archived Versions.

Abstract: Over the past decade a considerable number
of studies have focused on generating semantically rich asbuilt building information models (BIMs). However, the
prevailing methods rely on laborious manual segmentation
or automatic but error-prone segmentation. In addition, the
methods failed to make good use of existing semantics
sources. This paper presents a novel segmentation-free
derivative-free optimization (DFO) approach that
translates the generation of as-built BIMs from 2D images
into an optimization problem of fitting BIM components
regarding architectural and topological constraints. The
semantics of the BIMs are subsequently enriched by linking
the fitted components with existing semantics sources. The
approach was prototyped in two experiments using an
outdoor and an indoor case, respectively. The results
showed that in the outdoor case 12 out of 13 BIM
components were correctly generated within 1.5 hours, and
in the indoor case all target BIM components were
correctly generated with a root-mean-square deviation
(RMSD) of 3.9 cm in about 2.5 hours. The main
computational novelties of this study are: (a) to translate
the automatic as-built BIM generation from 2D images as
an optimization problem; (b) to develop an effective and
segmentation-free approach that is fundamentally different
from prevailing methods; and (c) to exploit online open
BIM component information for semantic enrichment,
which, to a certain extent, alleviates the dilemma between
information inadequacy and information overload in BIM
development.

*To whom correspondence should be addressed. E-mail: wilsonlu@hku.hk.

1 INTRODUCTION
This paper presents an effective approach for automatic
generation of semantically rich as-built building
information models (BIMs). According to the National BIM
Standard of United States (NIBS, 2015), a BIM is the
digital representation of physical and functional
characteristics of a facility. BIM forms a shared knowledge
resource for information about a facility, serving as a
reliable basis for decisions making (NIBS, 2015). An asbuilt BIM refers to a digital representation of the facility as
it was actually built or as it currently exists. Generally,
there are two types of semantic information contained in a
BIM (e.g., Eastman et al., 2011; NIBS, 2015; Belsky et al.,
2016).
1. Semantic information of individual construction
components, including:
a. Geometric information, such as size, position,
shape and textures; and
b. Non-geometric information, such as type,
specifications of material, and meanings of
functions.
2. Semantic information of relationships between
components, such as dependency, topology, and joint
information.
Some critical semantic information, such as actual building
geometries, current functions, and real topology of
facilities, are only embodied in as-built BIMs (Tang et al.,
2010; Pătrăucean et al., 2015). Semantically rich as-built
BIMs can enable many value-added applications, including
facility management (Becerik-Gerber et al., 2011), building

2

Xue, Lu & Chen

retrofitting and renovation (Ilter and Ergen, 2015), and
energy consumption simulation (Cho et al., 2015).
Generation of such BIMs has therefore attracted the interest
of practitioners and academics in the architecture,
engineering, construction, and operations industry.
Only a few buildings currently have a digital
representation of their as-built condition in the form of
BIM. For a constructed facility, the BIM created at the
design stage does not adequately represent the most updated
condition of a building due to design changes, inadvertent
deviations or errors, and renovation work; to do so, the asdesigned BIM needs to be updated into an as-built BIM
(Chen et al., 2015; Hamledari et al., 2017). To manually
label the semantic information onto a BIM is possible but
extremely tedious and time-consuming. Researchers have
thus endeavored to achieve such semantically rich as-built
BIMs by developing various automatic modeling
approaches over the past decade. Laser scanning and
photogrammetry were adopted with a view to rapidly
surveying digital measurements (e.g., point clouds or
imagery) as the raw data that can be preprocessed for
subsequent modeling. Considerable progress has also been
made in enhancing data preparations (e.g., Song et al.,
2014; Zhang et al., 2016), developing data preprocessing
algorithms, exploring model generation methods (e.g.,
Bosché et al., 2015; Díaz-Vilariño et al., 2015), and data
transfer plan and rule-based inference for topological
semantic enrichment (Hamledari et al., 2017; Sacks et al.,
2017).
However, significant difficulties remain in the field of asbuilt BIM generation. For example, apart from their
relatively high cost, point clouds and imagery primarily
represent the geometric data of surfaces, which makes it
extremely difficult to reveal the volumetric components and
discover non-geometric semantics from the surfaces.
Although segmentation methods based on a priori heuristic
rules and up-to-date object recognition methods, such as
support vector machine (SVM) (Adan and Huber, 2011;
Perez-Perez et al., 2016), are developed for semantic
enrichment, the overall results are generally unsatisfactory.
Much manual work is still required to model the
measurement into components, and in turn, to fit into an asbuilt BIM (Jung et al., 2014). On the other hand, many
commercial or non-commercial organizations have started
to publish semantic BIM components online for users to
retrieve. For instance, more than 200,000 parametric BIM
components are freely available on BIMobjects.com. Some
researchers also started to develop specific sets such as the
historical architectural BIM components by Santagati and
Turco (2017). Such BIM components are well designed,
rich in semantic information, and maintained by their
industrial manufacturers. Clearly, there is a dilemma
between information inadequacy and information overload
in generating as-built BIMs.

It would constitute a novel proposition to recognize BIM
components from the measured as-built conditions, and
enrich their semantics by exploiting the information
available in BIM components openly accessible online or
elsewhere. Through this, it can also deal with the
aforementioned information dilemma to a certain extent.
The major difficulty is the BIM component recognition
process, which involves burdensome manual segmentation,
and huge amounts of computation, e.g., every component
may have up to nine parameters of geometric degrees of
freedom (position, scaling, and rotation in 3D) to determine
regardless of topological and architectural requirements.
The difficulty, nevertheless, can be controlled by
harnessing powerful computational devices and advanced
algorithms that have been successfully implemented to
solve some extremely challenging scientific and
engineering problems. Examples of such problems include
the protein structure prediction (Nicosia and Stracquadanio,
2008), aircraft wings design (Lee et al., 2008), and surgical
planning and treatment design (Clancey and Witten, 2011).
All these challenging problems can be modeled and solved
as optimization problems, for which many off-the-peg
evolutionary computations and derivative-free optimization
(DFO) methods have been developed in applied
mathematics and computer science and applied to solve
many engineering problems (Eiben and Smith, 2003; Conn
et al., 2009). Regarding as-built BIM generation,
architectural knowledge such as building styles (e.g.,
Baroque architecture) and structural regularity (e.g.,
flatness, parallels, and symmetries) can also be applied as
constraints to effectively reduce the search space of the
formulated problem (Chen et al., 2017).
This paper develops a DFO approach for the automated
generation of semantically rich as-built BIMs using 2D
images. The approach introduces three novelties that can
significantly improve the field. Firstly, it formulates the asbuilt BIM generation as a constrained optimization
problem, so that many established DFO algorithms can be
applied to solve the problem. Secondly, the approach
integrates the cutting-edge multidisciplinary instruments
such as computer vision metrics and DFO algorithms to
realize an effective and segmentation-free BIM generation
approach. Thirdly, the approach makes good use of the
architecture domain knowledge and rich semantics in BIM
component libraries that are available on the Internet or
elsewhere.
The remainder of the paper is structured into five
sections. Section 2 reviews the literature on as-built BIM
generation and DFO applications in related problems.
Section 3 presents the proposed methodology. Section 4
describes the experimental tests of the proposed
methodology wherein a BIM is rebuilt from a single picture
of the building shot a considerable time ago and another
one from two photos of a furniture store. Section 5
comprehensively discusses the advantages, shortcomings,

Automatic generation of semantically rich as-built BIMs using 2D images
and future developments of the proposed method. Section 6
concludes the study and provides recommendations for
future research.
2 LITERATURE REVIEW
2.1 Generation of as-built BIMs
Capturing the as-built conditions of a building is the
foremost step for as-built BIM generation. This is
traditionally
conducted
using
conventional
tape
measurements by skilled persons. This manual process is
extremely tedious, intensive, time-consuming, and at times,
inaccurate. Nowadays, non-contact devices including
ground-level simultaneous localization and mapping
(SLAM) sensors (Nüchter, 2008), cameras on unmanned
aerial vehicles (a.k.a. drones) (Dai and Lu, 2010; Nex and
Remondino, 2014), ground and airborne laser scanners
(Tang et al., 2010; Holgado-Barco et al., 2017), and satellite
orbit-level synthetic aperture radars (Zhu and Shahzad,
2014) have been adopted for rapid as-built geometry
measurements. Data captured by such measurement
technologies is usually in the form of point cloud or a set of
images. Furthermore, imagery can be processed into 3D
point clouds using Structure from Motion (SfM) by
estimating camera parameters and 3D structural information
of scenes (Snavely et al., 2008). Vice versa, 3D point
clouds can also be converted to 2D images, e.g., for lossless
data compression (Houshiar and Nüchter, 2015) and asbuilt surface patches (Henry et al., 2012).
Methods for generating as-built BIMs from the
measurement data can be categorized as either data-driven
or model-driven. A data-driven method is to perform
modeling based on the preprocessed measurement data.
Valero et al. (2012) presented an automatic method that
yields boundary representation models of indoor
environments containing a variety of clutter; however, they
estimate structural lines of indoor environments by the
intersection of two adjacent planes, which is not a
mathematically rigorous approach. Ad-hoc surface fitting
heuristics such as improved random sample consensus
(RANSAC) (Schnabel et al., 2007; Lagüela et al., 2013)
and parametric curved surfaces (Zhang et al., 2015;
Dimitrov et al., 2016) are employed to segment expected
surfaces from real world noisy data. Object recognition and
machine learning techniques such as SVM (Adan and
Huber, 2011; Koppula et al., 2011; Perez-Perez et al., 2016;
Wang et al., 2017) and convolutional neural networks
(Babacan et al., 2017) are also adapted to identify semantic
labels. Regarding directly generating BIM from images by
using data-driven methods, Criminisi et al. (2000) applied
projective geometrical techniques to create a 3D surface of
the building shown in a single image. Wang et al. (2011)
used hue, saturation, and value color space and red, green,
and blue color segmentation to recognize and extract basic
geometric information of house envelopes from the images

3

of the house. Quintana et al. (2018) combined color (RGB)
from images and geometry (xyz) from point clouds to detect
open, semi-open and closed doors.
Model-driven methods have also been explored. They
generally refer to comparing the known components against
the datasets (e.g., point clouds or imagery), recognizing
components, and fitting them in a BIM based on predefined rules. The pre-defined rules could be known
knowledge of digital building models/components (e.g.,
windows, doors, and beams) and their topographic
constraints (e.g., a window should be embedded in the
wall). Faber and Fisher (2002) considered the constrained
surface optimization based on the mean square error
(MSE) and employed a genetic algorithm (GA) to
recognize parametric models from a doorway point cloud.
Xiong and Huber (2010) encoded the point clouds into a
voxel structure and detected planar patches by grouping
neighboring points together using a region-growing
method. This approach is further improved in Xiong et al.
(2013), who introduced a context-based method to identify
and model the structural components without projection of
point clouds. Dore and Murphy (2014) presented a semiautomatic method for as-built BIM facade reconstruction.
Their method first developed parametric facade template
and estimated the position and size of the facade structure
by classical architectural proportions. Then, users could
manually edit the position, size, and other parameters of the
generated facade.
Acknowledging previous efforts on as-built BIM
generation, both data-driven and model-driven methods rely
heavily on segmentation of measurement data, which is
extremely error-prone (Tang et al., 2010; Pătrăucean et al.,
2015; Perez-Perez et al., 2016). For instance, Koppula et al.
(2011) achieved an about 80% precision and 70% recall
with SVM in segmenting ofﬁce scenes and an about 50%
precision and 50% recall for home scenes. Babacan et al.
(2017) found the precision of segmentation by deep
learning varied from about 40% for beams to over 90% for
walls and floors, recall varied from about 55% for doors to
99% for floors. In general, the generalization of
computerized object recognition methods in the
uncontrolled environments of real-life scenarios can often
be unsatisfactory (Andreopoulos and Tsotsos, 2013). As a
result, the reliance on segmentation often undermines the
semantic enrichment level of prevailing as-built BIM
development methods (Pătrăucean et al., 2015) and could
indirectly raise the requirements (e.g., sufficient coverage,
accuracy, and details) on the measurement data (Anil et al.,
2013; Zhang et al., 2016).
In addition, a dilemma with as-built BIM generation is
that on one hand there is a lack of semantic information in
as-built BIMs, while on the other hand there is a plethora of
semantic information on various BIM components that are
available on the Internet or from other sources. This
dilemma could be addressed by stitching the semantics in

4

Xue, Lu & Chen

various BIM components onto the as-built BIMs for
semantic enrichment.
2.2 Derivative-free optimization applications in related
problems
Many problems in civil and infrastructural engineering,
such as optimal design of a structure (Adeli and Kamal,
1986) and fitting a parametric model to a point cloud
(Fisher, 2004), can be modeled and solved as constrained
optimization problems, in which there are constraints on the
variables (Gill et al., 1981). Such a constrained
optimization is a typical NP-hard (non-deterministic
polynomial time hard) problem, which refers to a set of
challenges whose solutions can be verified in polynomial
time. Furthermore, fitting a single component (i.e., its
multiple real parameters) with the measurement can be
rather expensive in terms of the computational cost (see
Aster et al., 2013); normally one will engage a third-party
BIM platform to project a 3D BIM into 2D images, and
mobilize the platform to perform the operations such as
appending, relocating, scaling, and connecting until the best
(or satisfactory) settlement of the BIM component is found.
As these problems imply that traditional mathematical
programs, such as IBM CPLEX and Gurobi Optimization,
cannot be applied, a DFO solution is therefore demanded.
Examples of DFO algorithms for the constrained
optimization problem include GA and covariance matrix
adaptation with evolution strategy (CMA-ES). GA is a
well-known algorithm for solving both constrained and
unconstrained optimization problems. GA relies on
operators of selection, mutation, and crossover on
‘chromosomes’ of independent variables, and mimics a
natural selection process that drives biological evolution.
Due to the complexity of real problems in civil engineering,
parallel GAs were often employed, e.g., Adeli and Cheng
(1994) demonstrated a parallel GA for 7.7 times of speed
and Adeli and Kumar (1995) later used 512 CPUs for
optimizing a structure consisting of 4,016 structural
elements in parallel GAs. Some recent GA applications can
be found as Li et al. (2017)’s optimal mountain railway
alignment and Koo et al. (2016)’s optimal balances between
time–cost–environment in vertical transportation for
workers. CMA-ES (Hansen and Ostermeier, 2001; Hansen,
2016) incorporates evolution processes like GA. The
difference is that CMA-ES also concerns pairwise
dependencies between variables, i.e., the covariance matrix.
Adaptation of the covariance matrix generally leads to
optimizing a meta-model of the objective function.
Therefore, although both are established algorithms, CMAES usually finds better solutions than GA for expensive
objective functions (Hansen et al., 2010). For instance,
Kaveh et al. (2011) applied CMA-ES on the optimal truss
structure design problem and reported considerable
improvements than the results from GA, e.g., a 31%
improvement on the optimal design of weight for a 26-

story-tower space truss in less than one hour. Athanasiou et
al. (2011) also applied CMA-ES in earthquake engineering,
and obtained an improvement up to 53% compared to the
previous solutions in the literature. In summary, the DFO
methods have proven a strong capability in solving the
challenging civil engineering problems.
Nevertheless, only a few references have been applied
DFO methods to the generation of as-built BIMs. Faber and
Fisher (2002) and Fisher (2004) set up an MSE-based
objective function on point clouds and adapted GA in
solving the formulated problem. As far as is concerned, the
formulation of image-based generation of as-built BIM and
the application of modern DFO methods such as CMA-ES
have not been reported in the literature.
All these opportunities and challenges have engendered
this study, which has developed an as-built BIM generation
method that is segmentation-free, and can make use of
existing information resources to generate a semantically
rich BIM.
3 METHODOLOGY
3.1 Theoretical stance
The theoretical foundation of this study is to perceive the
as-built BIM generation as a process of fitting the BIM
components (e.g., facades, doors, windows), whereby the
fitting task of each component is equivalent to solving a
small-scale constrained optimization problem. In this study,
the variables of the constrained optimization problem are
the parameters of location, scaling, rotation, and topology
of the BIM components. The objective function is to
maximize the similarity between the measurement of asbuilt conditions and the target BIM model (a combination
of the fitted components per se). The constraints over the
variables are derived from the topological requirements
between the components and the reasonable ranges of the
component’s parameters.
3.2 Problem formulation
Figure 1 illustrates how as-built BIM generation is
translated in this research. There are two inputs of the
constrained optimization problem: the measurement data of
as-built conditions and the BIM components contained in
libraries. The measurement data, in this paper, are 2D
images that can be taken at a relatively low cost. These
images should be meaningful, i.e., bird-view images are
preferred for as-built rooftop modeling and front-view
images for as-built facade modeling. Another input is the
BIM components (e.g., facade, wall, windows, and doors)
organized in one or multiple libraries. The semantics
involved in this study come from two sources. One source
is the optimized parameters of the digital BIM component,
including the location, scaling, rotation, and topology,
which are gradually obtained during the problem solving.

Automatic generation of semantically rich as-built BIMs using 2D images

5

Figure 1 General framework of the DFO approach for as-built BIM generation
We define them in a tuple Xi for the i-th component
instance:
Xi = (cl, l, s, rz),

(1)

where cl is the class of the component (e.g., a three-section
window), l is the 3D location, s is the 3D scaling, and rz is
the rotation around z-axis. Using mathematical language
above, they are the variables of the constrained
optimization problem. In view of the fact that not all
components are relevant to a certain measurement, some
rules based on architectural style and date of construction
(e.g., Baroque architecture in 1910s) can be defined to filter
irrelevant components. This filtering can significantly
reduce the computational load. Another source of semantic
information is the adoption of semantics from BIM
component libraries. The categories of adopted semantics
include surface pattern, architecture style, typical functions,
materials, and mechanical properties.
The similarity function is the objective function of the
constrained optimization problem. A similarity function
measures the level of resemblance between the
measurements as the input and the generated BIM. The
importance of the similarity function is easy to understand,
as the rationale of the methodology is to fit existing BIM
components (by optimizing Xi) to the input measurement
until a maximum/satisfactory similarity is achieved. Thanks
to previous research in computer vision and pattern
recognition, many such functions have been developed. For
example, given an input imagery measurement and a BIM,
a well-known similarity function is Wang et al. (2004)’s
structural similarity (SSIM) index, which integrates
structure, luminance, and contrast to compare two 2D
images:
SSIM = structure ⋅ luminance ⋅ contrast

=

( 2 µ ˆ µ A +c1 )( 2σ ˆ +c1 )
A
AA
,
( µ 2ˆ+ µ 2A +c1 )(σ 2ˆ+σ 2A +c2 )
A
A

(2)

where A is the matrix of pixels in the input image, Â is the
matrix of pixels in 2D projection of the BIM to be

generated, μA and μÂ are the means of A and Â, σA and σÂ are
the standard deviations, σÂA is the covariance, and c1 and c2
are two constants. It should be noted that BIM components
are in 3D format and need to be projected into 2D images
before the similarity test. SSIM was proven more accurate
than conventional metrics such as MSE in measuring
similarity of images (Wang and Simoncelli, 2008), since it
considers not only the value of individual pixels, but also
the structural arrangement of these pixels.
The optimization process to generate the semantically
rich as-built BIM would be ineffective if the computations
are not constrained. The constraints are derived from the
topological requirements between components (e.g., a
window must reside on a wall), the scale ranges of the
components (e.g., the window should not be larger than the
wall), as well as architecture conventions. Here,
architectural conventions refer to the domain knowledge
applied in the architectural design, such as building styles
(e.g., Baroque architecture), geometrical or physical
features (e.g., flatness, parallels, and symmetries) of
building objects and their spatial relationships
(Cantzler, 2003). Regardless of multiple appearances of
architecture designs, there are only a limited types of
topological relationships between building components in
real life, including adjacency (e.g., above, below, and nextto), separation, containment, intersection, and connectivity
(Nguyen et al., 2005). In this study, these types of
topological relationships are employed to organize the
constraints between components. The constraints C can be
defined as a set of functions:
C(X) = {CI(Xi)}∪{ CR(Xi, Xj), i≠j},

(3)

where CI indicates the constraints on the parameters Xi of
any individual component, and CR is the constraints on the
topological relationships between any pair of (i-th, j-th)
components. Examples of the two groups of constraints can
be found in Table 1.

6

Xue, Lu & Chen

Figure 2 Modules, supporting software libraries, and the DFO-based problem-solving process of COBIMG
Table 1
Example of constraints on individual component and
topological relationships
C Example
Example value Notes
scaling_max
[1.5, 1.5, 1.5] xyz coordinates
scaling_min
[0.8, 0.8, 0.8] Ibid.
CI
z_rotation_max π/2
z_rotation_min 0
on_top_of
‘Ground’
Adjacency,
connectivity
CR contains_on
‘Wall’
Containment or
intersection
min_separation ‘0.5 m’
Separation
When all the variables, objective functions, and
constraints are defined, the constrained optimization
problem of as-built BIM generation can be expressed in the
general form as:
(4)
For researchers who tend to treat a minimization problem as
the standard form, the objective function can be derived by
negating the SSIM in Eq. (4).
3.3 Problem solving with software implementation
In order to implement the proposed method and solve the
formulated problem in Sections 3.1 and 3.2, the authors
developed an open-source software library constrained
optimization-based BIM generator (COBIMG, source code
and tutorials available at: https://github.com/ffxue/cobimg).
As shown in Figure 2, COBIMG has three major modules.
The first module is the DFO algorithm (e.g., CMA-ES) at
the core. The second module is the similarity indexes (e.g.,
SSIM) to compare the projected image with the input

measurement. The third module is a set of plugins for
manipulating components in different BIM platforms,
including plugins for positioning, scaling, and projecting.
The problem-solving of COBIMG is a fully automatic,
repetitive trial-and-error procedure as illustrated in Figure
2. The input BIM components could be Autodesk Revit’s
(.rfa format) or Trimble SketchUp’s (.skp format), which
provides the parameters and semantics, such as those listed
in Table 1, of the components. Figure 3 shows the detailed
operations and interactions between the modules of
COBIMG in an individual trial for the i-th BIM component,
using CMA-ES and SSIM as an example. At the start of the
trial, the CMA-ES populates a feasible Xi that does not
violate the constraints, e.g., the rotation rz may not exceed
the preset range. The plugin decodes from Xi to the
parameters (e.g., location, scaling, rotation, and topology)
of the i-th BIM component. Then, the BIM platform is
instructed to manipulate the component as specified by
parameters and project the 3D component (or accumulated
BIM) into 2D images, of which the number is same with the
input photos. The image similarity is calculated as the
SSIM index and returns CMA-ES as the objective value
f(Xi). The objective values can update the covariance matrix
of CMA-ES for succeeding trials. Although each trial may
not necessarily guarantee a higher SSIM, the evolution
strategy of CMA-ES will achieve a higher SSIM
eventually.
To scale up the trial-and-error procedure from one
individual component to the overall as-built BIM
generation, a two-stage strategy is adopted. Stage 1 aims to
fit individual components into the as-built BIM one by one,
following the topological relationships and constraints. The
target BIM is thus incrementally generated by appending
one component after another. Stage 2 is to refine the fitted

Automatic generation of semantically rich as-built BIMs using 2D images

7

(a) Outdoor case: A demolished building of The School
of Tropical Medicine and School of Pathology, The
University of Hong Kong (640×360 pixels; source:
Archives of HKU Estates Office)

Figure 3 Message sequence chart of the operations and
interactions between the modules of COBIMG in an
individual trial
BIM holistically by fine-tuning the available components,
to achieve a higher similarity between the BIM and the
measurement. Both call the similar trials of COBIMG but
the former is at individual component level on incomplete
models while the latter is on complete models and may
involve inter-component operations (e.g., swapping two
components). The trials will continue until some
termination conditions (e.g., the maximum number of trials)
are met. The parameters that result in the best similarity
amongst the trials is the final output. The generated as-built
BIM is semantically rich based on two sources of
information, i.e., online open libraries (for standard
geometry, materials, and details) and DFO-based
component fitting (for as-built position, scaling, rotation,
and topological relationships).
4 EXPERIMENTAL TESTS
4.1 Experimental setting
In this study, the feasibility of the proposed as-built BIM
generation method is validated through a somewhat
extreme outdoor case and an indoor case (See Figure 4). In
the outdoor case, the target building is The School of
Tropical Medicine and School of Pathology of The
University of Hong Kong (HKU), which used to be a
baroque-style two-story building. As the building was built
in 1919 and demolished more than two decades ago, it is
almost impossible to collect the information of this building
through laser scanning or other surveying technologies. The
only information available is the photo provided by the
HKU Estates Office, as shown in Figure 4(a). In this case,
the proposed method is tested to generate the model from

(b) Indoor case: A scene in a furniture store (384×512
pixels; taken by a smart phone camera with 28mm
effective focal length; resolution down sampled)
Figure 4 An outdoor case and an indoor case for
evaluating the proposed method
the single image. Specifically, apparent components with
both width and height greater than 1.0 meter were required
to be recognized and fitted in the BIM. The target BIM thus
demanded a set of component instances including one door
portico, one tree, two storeys of walls, and nine windows.
The camera was approximately located at the position (0,
21.6, 4) (x, y, z in meter) pointing to (0, 0, 4) in SketchUp,
based on a triangulation of the photo with the building
footprint from a survey map of HKU in the period
1969~1976. The categories and the numbers of BIM
components were given in the experiments: 1 Baroque style
building, 2 storeys, 4 windows (of unknown classes) and 1
door on the G/F, 5 identical windows (of unknown classes)
on the 1/F, 1 tree (of unknown classes) in front of the
building. Except for the trees, the rotation parameters were
omitted due to the photo having been properly shot from the
front according to the triangulation.
The indoor case was a furniture scene with a few chairs
in the corner, as shown in Figure 4(b). In this case, the input
was two photos taken from different directions, where the
cameras were with 28mm focal length and located at (2.12,
1.11, 1.50) pointing to (0, 1.06, 0.05) and (0.64, 2.69, 1.50)

Xue, Lu & Chen

8

Component
I
d category
class

The outdoor case

–

Ground

Ground

Door

Door portico

Tree

Wall

The indoor case

Window

Chair

Table 2
BIM components adopted from SketchUp 3D Warehouse
Original model from 3D
Supplemented attributes of the component
Warehouse (Contributor ID)
As constraints
Not as constraints
–
Door (3) Classical Ottoman
Osmanli Colonial (Mohamed EL
Shahed); Blenheim Orangery and
Function Rooms (Richard)

Oak tree

Downy Oak (KangaroOz 3D)

Palm tree

Royal Palm Tree (Yoshi
Productions)

With h-sliding

Salm Palace (3dolomouc)

Smooth surface

Salm Palace (3dolomouc)

Three-section

French Window (Architect)

Traditional
Armchair model
Vedbo
Armchair model
Villstad
Model Kaustby
Model Nolmyra
Model Norraryd

Mahogany Framed Window (Ben)
VEDBO (FRANKSON)

–

–

Ranges of scaling; contains_on
= Wall

IFC type and function;
Materials;

Ranges of scaling; range of zrotation; on_top_of = Ground

Ibid.

Ibid.

Ibid.

Ranges of scaling; on_top_of =
Ground
Ranges of scaling; on_top_of =
Wall
Ranges of scaling; contains_on
= Wall
Ibid.
Ranges of scaling; range of zrotation; on_top_of = Ground

Ibid.
Ibid.
Ibid.
Ibid.
IFC type; Producer;
Materials; Retail price;

armchair (tako)

Ibid.

Ibid.

IKEA - KAUSTBY (Laurent B.)
Nolmyra chair (Jo E.)
NORRARYD (Vera O.)

Ibid.
Ibid.
Ibid.

Ibid.
Ibid.
Ibid.

point to (0, 0, 0.10), respectively. The ground truth included
two armchairs (models Vedbo and Villstad) and a chair
(model Nolmyra); the horizontal centers of the three chairs,
measured by the authors with a tape, were (0.401, 0.524),
(0.560, 1.343), and (0.381, 2.060), respectively. The task
was to generate a BIM with three correct chairs and
measure the error in terms of root-mean-square deviation
(RMSD). The candidate BIM components were thus known
as “chairs”, but neither the types nor the numbers of the
chairs were given in this case. Therefore, unlike following
the given clues in the outdoor case, the COBIMG had to
repeatedly try to place possible chair components till no
better SSIM index can be found.
A set of BIM components, as listed in Table 2, were
collected from 3D Warehouse of SketchUp with keyword
filters “Baroque” and names of chair models. Topological
constraints of the components listed in Table 1 were
manually added as attributes in SketchUp. The attributes
can be read and translated to the semantic constraints of the
BIM components by the plugin of COBIMG. Some
semantics that have not been associated with the constraints
such as Industry Foundation Classes (IFC) types are also
listed. The time of searching and downloading all the
original models was about 24 minutes, the time of cleaning
unnecessary parts from the components was about 45
minutes, and the annotation of the constraints cost about 22
minutes.
The experiments were conducted on a laptop computer
with Intel i7 CPU (2.60 GHz), 16 GB RAM, and the

Windows 10 64-bit operating system. The adopted DFO
algorithm was CMA-ES and the adopted image similarity
was the SSIM index. In each case, the as-built BIM
generation started from an empty model with only one
invisible ‘Ground’ component (z = 0). The BIM was
incrementally generated by attaching one component each
time, starting from those eligible to connect to the ‘Ground’
component. As a result, the ‘Wall’ components preceded
the ‘Windows’ and ‘Doors.’ For fitting each component, a
fixed number of trials of CMA-ES algorithm were allowed
in the COBIMG. The number of trials was set from 10 to
2,000 in a sequence of seven values increasing
exponentially.
4.2 The results of the outdoor case
The results of similarity, overall time cost, and correctly
generated components observed from the outdoor case by
changing different number of trials are shown in Figure 5.
In general, both the similarity and overall time cost
monotonically increased when the number of trials
increased from 10 to 2,000. The similarity increased from
about 0.16 to over 0.24, the time cost increased from a
couple of minutes to about three hours, and the number of
correctly generated instances of components in the
generated model varied from 4/13 to 12/13. It was
interesting to observe that some components were wrongly,
but reasonably, generated. For example, in the generated
model from 200 trials for each component, the oak tree
component was wrongly fitted into a similar presence of a

Automatic generation of semantically rich as-built BIMs using 2D images

9

Figure 5 The trends of similarity, overall time cost, and correctly generated components in the outdoor case when changing the
trials of CMA-ES for fitting each component

Figure 6 The automated optimization process of the proposed method with annotated SketchUp models for the outdoor case
with 500 trials for fitting each component
potted plant in front of the door. By comparing the tradeoffs between the number of correctly generated components
and the time cost, 500 trials are suitable for generating a
satisfactory result under the given experimental settings.

The number 500 also fell in the suggested range of
evaluations (i.e., at least 100) of CMA-ES (Hansen, 2016).
Figure 6 illustrates the detailed BIM generation
procedure of the test in which the number of trials was set

10

Xue, Lu & Chen

(a) Auto-generated front face (b) Manually completed
by the proposed method in
building model
SketchUp

Figure 7 The generated model in the test with 500 trials
for fitting each component
to 500. After the first 500 trials, the G/F wall was attached
to the model, and after another 500 trials the 1/F wall was
attached to the model. Then a group of five identical
traditional windows were attached and later replaced by
another group of five three-section windows, because the
prior group's contribution was only f = 0.1921 whereas the
later option's contribution was much better at f = 0.2165.
The incremental generation phase stopped at the 11,000th
trial. After another 3,500 trials of the fine-tuning phase, the
final model achieved a fitness of f = 0.2335 by slightly
changing the locations and scales of the components
automatically. Although 12 out of 13 components were
correctly generated, it can be seen that all 13 components
were once correctly put together at the 10,500 of
accumulated trials but that the leftmost window on G/F was
replaced due to a slight 0.0005 improvement of similarity.
The overall time was 1 hour 23 minutes and 32.6 seconds
(5,012.6s). The result of the proposed method was saved as
a 2.2 MB SketchUp file.
As some components in the generated model did not
perfectly match the given baroque architecture, such as a
three-section window on the G/F, the authors made a few
manual amendments to the auto-generated front face of the
building. Figures 7(a) and 7(b) show the window example
highlighted with red circles. The model of the whole
building, as shown in Figure 7(b), was estimated based on
the survey map of HKU and manually completed with
replicas of the auto-generated facade.
The resulting model integrated rich semantic information
from two resources. The proposed method generated the
geometric information of location, scaling, and rotation for
each component, as well as topological relationships. Some
other semantic information, such as functions and materials,
was inherited from the component set. Figure 8 shows a
screenshot of the semantics for a window component,
including the IFC type, parent component (i.e., the exterior
wall on 1/F), storey, as attributes in the generated model.

Figure 8 Semantics as attributes of a window in the
generated model
4.3 The results of the indoor case
Figure 9 shows the results of similarity, overall time cost,
and correctly generated components observed from the
indoor case by changing the number of trials in the indoor
case: The similarity increased from about 0.62 to about 0.68
when the number of trials per component changed from 10
to 2,000. During the incremental of trials, the number of
correctly generated instances of components in the
generated model varied from 1/3 to 3/3, the error (i.e.,
RMSD) reduced from over 40 cm to less than 5 cm, yet the
time cost increased from less than 1 minute to over five
hours. It can be found from Figure 9 that a very small part
of the headrest of the Vedbo chair was buried in the wall in
many resulting models, as highlighted by the circles. This
was because the real chair was bendable when leaning on a
wall, but the shapes of BIM components on SketchUp and
most modern BIM platforms are rigid. Similar to the
number of trials in the outdoor case, 500 are also suitable
for a satisfactory result under the given settings.
Figure 10 illustrates the details in the BIM generation
procedure of the test in which the number of trials was set
to 500. There were totally 11,500 trials, which consisted of
10,000 trials in the incremental generation phase in four
rounds and 1,500 trials in the fine-tune phase. In the first
round, the best component was a Vedbo armchair with a
fitness of f = 0.6437, and the next best one was a Villstad
armchair with a fitness of f = 0.6185. Thereafter, the Vedbo
armchair was placed in the model. In the second round, a
Villstad armchair retuned the highest fitness f = 0.6694, and
was thus placed next to Vedbo. The third chair was a
Nolmyra chair with a slightly better fitness f = 0.6706. No
better fitness (i.e., SSIM index) was found during the trials
of attaching the fourth chair. Hence, the incremental

Automatic generation of semantically rich as-built BIMs using 2D images

11

Figure 9 The trends of similarity, overall time cost, and correctly generated components in the indoor case when changing the
trials of CMA-ES for fitting each component

Figure 10 The automated optimization process of the proposed method with annotated SketchUp models for the indoor case
with 500 trials for fitting each component
generation phase of COBIMG ended and the model
contains three chairs. In the fine-tune phase, the BIM was
updated by a slightly better fitness f = 0.6744. The three
chairs in the resulting BIM were all correct and with an

RMSD of 3.9 cm. The error level was acceptable, because
the downloaded component models including Vedbo and
Nolmyra were not exactly the same as the latest chair
models. The overall time was 2 hour 26 minutes and 32.9

Xue, Lu & Chen

12

seconds (8,792.9s). The result of the proposed method was
saved as a 13.0 MB SketchUp file.

Figure 11 The linear relationship between overall time
cost and the number of trials in both cases
Table 3
Computing resource consumption breakdown in the tests
with 500 trials in both cases
Used by

Functions

% of time
Outdoor Indoor

Manipulating components;
97.67%
3D to 2D projection
Computing the image
1.45%
similarity index
Optimizing the parameters
0.00%
of a component
Reading/writing of logs
0.88%
System/disk
and temporary image files
SketchUp
& plugin
Similarity
to the input
DFO
algorithm

97.78%
1.33%
0.00%
0.89%

Figure 12 The strong correlation between the
computational time spent by SketchUp and the number of
‘faces’ in the BIM to manipulate and project (Note:
Pearson’s cor. = 0.907, p < 0.0001, two-tailed)

4.4 The computational time
The overall time cost in both cases increased in a linear
relationship with the number of trials per component, as
shown in Figure 11. The linear relationship was more
convincing (R² = 0.9993) in the outdoor case than that (R² =
0.9592) in the indoor case, because the number of
components was unknown in the tests of the latter case. In
fact, the incremental procedure of component fitting also
indicates that the overall time cost is in a linear relationship
with the total number of candidate components in the
libraries. Therefore, one can expect a linear increment on
time cost when setting up more candidate components (e.g.,
more models of chairs). Table 3 lists the breakdown of
computational time spent by different modules of
COBIMG. It can be found from Table 3 that over 95% of
the time was, in both cases, spent by SketchUp
manipulating components and projecting the model from
3D to 2D. Further bivariate analysis of the experimental
data showed that the computational time spent by SketchUp
had a significant strong positive correlation (Pearson’s
correlation = 0.907, p < 0.0001, two-tailed) with the
number of ‘faces’ in the BIM to manipulate and project.
Figure 12 illustrates the correlation and an equation by
linear regression, which indicates about 30,000 more
‘faces’ would increase the SketchUp time by one second
under the experimental settings.
5 DISCUSSION
5.1 Advantages and shortcomings of the proposed
method
The proposed DFO approach has been identified through
experimentation to have the following advantages over
conventional laser scanning and photogrammetry based
methods:
1. The proposed approach does not engage in the
burdensome task of preprocessing and segmenting
the as-built measurement (e.g., point cloud or images
captured by laser scanning or photogrammetry) but
rather regards the measurement as an entity so that
no explicit object recognition processes are
introduced; it directly compares the similarity
between the target measurement and the image from
projecting the BIM model. Eliminating object
recognition processes increases the computational
load (owing to the larger solution space), but
advanced algorithms and powerful computers can
handle this.
2. The data requirement is much more relaxed than
developing a BIM model from laser scanning or
photogrammetry. As illustrated in the experiment,

Automatic generation of semantically rich as-built BIMs using 2D images
the BIM of the building facade can be automatically
developed from one single image.
3. Compared with existing semi-automatic methods,
which consist of automatic segmentation and manual
semantics enrichment, the proposed method can
make use of extensively available BIM object
resources over the Internet so that less human
intervention is needed. This capacity epitomizes the
novel idea proposed in this paper of enriching BIM
semantics by dealing with the dilemma of
information inadequacy and information overload
when generating a BIM.
4. The proposed method adopts mature fitness function
from the field of computer vision and pattern
recognition; it has a high scalability to new
environments
even
without
adjusting the
configuration of the fitness function.
5. The innovative and interdisciplinary application of
established DFO in semantically rich as-built BIMs
opens a whole new avenue for the worldwide
business of generating as-built BIMs.
Although the method proposed in this study has many
merits, it also has the following shortcomings:
1. The quality of the outcome is highly dependent on
the availability of components. For buildings that
have irregular components, an extra manual effort is
needed to tailor the specifically required
components, such as historical BIM objects (Dore
and Murphy, 2014; Santagati and Turco, 2017),
before applying the proposed method. Thanks to
online open BIM vendors, building modelers, and
many industrial practitioners who contribute to the
richness of the existing BIM component libraries, it
can be expected that the availability of BIM
components will not be a serious problem in
implementing the proposed method.
2. The proposed method allows BIM model generation
from one single image, but the level of accuracy
(e.g., centimeter-accuracy) may not be as high as a
model generated from laser scanning or
photogrammetry (e.g., millimeter-accuracy), and the
building components that are not shown or invisible
(e.g., joints or beams inside a wall) in the image
cannot be automatically modeled. One way to
compensate for this is to use multiple images taken
from various angles for calibration.
3. The computer program cannot compare with BIM
modelers’ professional knowledge, experience, and
insights in model generation. There is a tradeoff
amongst the costs of data input, automation/human
intervention level, and the level of semantic richness
in as-built BIM generation.

13

5.2 Future developments
Although this paper has focused on 2D imagery input
using the SSIM as the similarity index measurement and the
CMA-ES as the DFO solver, the proposed method can
incorporate more inputs and computation. For example, in
addition to individual images, the DFO approach can also
accept point clouds or processed imagery, as long as their
data collection costs are affordable. If the input is point
clouds, the objective function/similarity measurement could
be more complicated. For example, the MSE can be used to
measure Euclidean distance and difference of color between
an as-built BIM and an input point cloud. It has yet to be
determined which similarity index is more effective than
another for a certain type of data input.
In solving the constrained optimization problem, many
well-known computational algorithms, such as surrogate
methods and trust region methods, can also be adopted with
acceptable performance. The multimodality of optimal
solutions was also observed in the experiments. However, it
is so far unclear whether the performance of these DFO
algorithms and other multimodal algorithms are satisfactory
for constructing as-built BIMs.
It is noteworthy that some simple architecture
conventions have been translated into constraints such as
building style, topological relationships, and feasible scale
range, which can significantly improve the efficiency of the
DFO approach for as-built BIM generation. These
architecture conventions are not accidental, but often the
result of economical, manufacturing, functional, or
aesthetic considerations (Mitra and Pauly, 2008). Some of
the conventions can be obtained from ordinances or
standards, while others can be originated from general
observation in real-world situations (e.g., Chen et al., 2017).
These should be further explored and formalized for
computer vision and pattern recognition, with a focus on
their applications in as-built BIM generation.
In this paper, as-built BIM generation is formulated as a
constrained optimization problem. In solving the problem, a
specific platform, Trimble SketchUp, and BIM components
compatible with the platform are chosen. Other platforms
such as Autodesk Revit should be explored in the future.
Results of the experimental tests conducted in this study
confirm that by consuming over 95% of the time, the
current single-thread BIM platform is the bottleneck in
applying the proposed method. Taking advantage of up-todate multi-threading and GPUs could lead to a
breakthrough in the wide adoption of the proposed method.
In addition, this research preliminarily explored generated
BIMs with the IFC standard, but the actual interoperability
has yet to be ascertained and could be the subject of future
studies.
In summary, the use of a derivative-free optimization
(DFO) approach to the generation of semantically rich asbuilt BIMs is a seminal idea that this research has brought
to fruition with satisfactory results. However, there are

Xue, Lu & Chen

14

many areas such as required inputs, variable settings,
objective functions, constraints, software platforms, output
formats, and performance measurements of the constrained
optimization problem that need further development.
6 CONCLUSION
This paper developed a novel DFO method for
semantically rich as-built BIM generation. It started from
the dilemma of information inadequacy and information
overload in BIM generation: on the one hand, there is a lack
of semantic information in the as-built BIMs, while on the
other hand there is plenty of semantics in various openaccess BIM components to be fully exploited. The approach
translated the as-built BIM generation into a constrained
optimization problem, whereby advanced DFO algorithms,
augmented with some architecture constraints, were applied
to recognize the best combination of BIM components from
the data input (i.e., measurement of as-built conditions).
The recognized BIM was further linked with existing BIM
component libraries as a cost-effective way to enrich the
semantics. The originality of this research is in challenging
prevalent practice by introducing the as-built BIM
generation as a rigorous mathematical formulation with
considerable computational complexity.
The DFO method was prototyped in this study through a
series of rigorous tests, which were conducted as an
extreme experiment where a semantically rich as-built BIM
was satisfactorily generated from a single photo of a
demolished building. The experiment confirmed that the
DFO approach is effective for as-built BIM generation
regarding time efficiency and semantic richness.
Limitations of the proposed method, including the
dependency on BIM component libraries and the quality of
the generated model, were also identified. The research
team intends to undertake further research to validate other
advanced algorithms, different input measurements, parallel
computation, and more semantic-based constraints and
reasoning.
The research described in this paper is of theoretical and
practical significance. It validates the theoretical foundation
for transferring the generation of an as-built BIM to a
nonlinear optimization problem, while challenging the
segmentation of measurement data in prevailing
approaches. Facility developers around the world are
demanding as-built BIMs as a deliverable, and the current
way of meeting this demand is by using expensive
technologies such as laser scanning, photogrammetry, and
SLAM. The DFO approach introduced in this paper could
be a game changer in the competitive landscape of the BIM
business. The approach can also make invaluable
contributions to heritage conservation, smart city
development, and environmental protection.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This study was supported by a grant from the Hong Kong
Research Grant Council (GRF HKU17201717) and a grant
from The Hong Kong University (201702159013). The
authors would like to thank the Editor and anonymous
reviewers for their valuable comments and suggestions.
REFERENCES
Adan, A. & Huber, D. (2011), 3D reconstruction of interior wall
surfaces under occlusion and clutter. In 2011 International
Conference on 3D Imaging, Modeling, Processing, Visualization
and Transmission (3DIMPVT 2011), pp. 275-281, Hangzhou,
China. doi:10.1109/3DIMPVT.2011.42
Adeli, H. & Cheng, N. T. (1994). Concurrent genetic algorithms for
optimization of large structures. Journal of Aerospace
Engineering, 7(3), 276-296.
Adeli, H. & Kamal, O. (1986). Efficient optimization of space
trusses. Computers & Structures, 24(3), 501-511.
Adeli, H. & Kumar, S. (1995). Concurrent structural optimization
on massively parallel supercomputer. Journal of Structural
Engineering, 121(11), 1588-1597.
Andreopoulos, A. & Tsotsos, J. K. (2013), 50 years of object
recognition: Directions forward. Computer Vision and Image
Understanding, 117(8), 827-891.
Anil, E. B., Tang, P., Akinci, B. & Huber, D. (2013), Deviation
analysis method for the assessment of the quality of the as-is
Building Information Models generated from point cloud
data. Automation in Construction, 35, 507-516.
Aster, R. C., Borchers, B. & Thurber, C. H. (2013). Parameter
estimation and inverse problems. 2nd Ed. Academic Press,
Oxford, UK.
Athanasiou, A., De Felice, M., Oliveto, G. & Oliveto, P. S. (2011).
Evolutionary algorithms for the identification of structural
systems in earthquake engineering. In Proceedings of the
International Conference on Evolutionary Computation Theory
and Applications - Volume 1: ECTA, (IJCCI 2011), pp. 52-62.
doi:10.5220/0003672900520062
Babacan, K., Chen, L. & Sohn, G. (2017). Semantic Segmentation
of Indoor Point Clouds Using Convolutional Neural Network.
ISPRS Annals of Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial
Information Sciences, IV-4/W4, 101-108.
Becerik-Gerber, B., Jazizadeh, F., Li, N. & Calis, G. (2011),
Application areas and data requirements for BIM-enabled
facilities management. Journal of Construction Engineering and
Management, 138(3), 431-442.
Belsky, M., Sacks, R. & Brilakis, I. (2016), Semantic enrichment
for building information modeling. Computer‐Aided Civil and
Infrastructure Engineering, 31(4), 261-274.
Bosché, F., Ahmed, M., Turkan, Y., Haas, C. T. & Haas, R. (2015),
The value of integrating Scan-to-BIM and Scan-vs-BIM
techniques for construction monitoring using laser scanning and
BIM: The case of cylindrical MEP components. Automation in
Construction, 49, 201-213.
Cantzler, H. (2003), Improving architectural 3D reconstruction by
constrained modelling (PhD thesis, University of Edinburgh,
Edinburgh, UK), Retrieved from http://hdl.handle.net/1842/319
Chen, K., Lu, W., Peng, Y., Rowlinson, S. & Huang, G. Q. (2015),
Bridging BIM and building: From a literature review to an

Automatic generation of semantically rich as-built BIMs using 2D images
integrated conceptual framework. International Journal of
Project Management, 33(6), 1405-1416.
Chen, K., Xue, F. & Lu, W. (2017), Development of 3D building
models using multi-source data: A study of high-density urban
area in Hong Kong. In Proceedings of Lean & Computing in
Construction Congress (LC3 2017), pp. 609-616. Heraklion,
Greece. doi:10.24928/JC3-2017/0252
Cho, Y. K., Ham, Y. & Golpavar-Fard, M. (2015), 3D as-is building
energy modeling and diagnostics: A review of the state-of-theart. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 29(2), 184-195.
Clancey, O. & Witten, M. (2011), A memetic algorithm for
dosimetric optimization in CyberKnife robotic radiosurgical
treatment planning. In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE Congress
on Evolutionary Computation (CEC 2011), pp. 880-885.
Conn, A. R., Scheinberg, K. & Vicente, L. N. (2009), Introduction
to derivative-free optimization, SIAM, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
Criminisi, A., Reid, I. & Zisserman, A. (2000), Single view
metrology. International Journal of Computer Vision, 40(2),
123-148.
Dai, F. & Lu, M. (2010), Assessing the accuracy of applying
photogrammetry to take geometric measurements on building
products. Journal of Construction Engineering and Management,
136(2), 242-250.
Díaz-Vilariño, L., Conde, B., Lagüela, S. & Lorenzo, H. (2015),
Automatic detection and segmentation of columns in as-built
buildings from point clouds. Remote Sensing, 7(11), 1565115667.
Dimitrov, A., Gu, R. & Golparvar‐Fard, M. (2016), Non‐uniform
B‐spline surface fitting from unordered 3D point clouds for
as‐built modeling. Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure
Engineering, 31(7), 483-498.
Dore, C. & Murphy, M. (2014), Semi-automatic generation of asbuilt BIM facade geometry from laser and image data. Journal of
Information Technology in Construction (ITcon), 19(2), 20-46.
Eastman, C. M., Teicholz, P., Sacks, R. & Liston, K. (2011), BIM
handbook: A guide to building information modeling for owners,
managers, designers, engineers and contractors, 2nd Edition.
John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken, New Jersey, USA.
Eiben, A. E. & Smith, J. E. (2003), Introduction to evolutionary
computing, Springer, Heidelberg.
Faber, P. & Fisher, B. (2002), How can we exploit typical
architectural structures to improve model recovery?.
In Proceedings of First International Symposium on 3D Data
Processing Visualization and Transmission, pp. 824-833.
doi:10.1109/TDPVT.2002.1024167
Fisher, R. B. (2004). Applying knowledge to reverse engineering
problems. Computer-Aided Design, 36(6), 501-510.
Gill, P. E., Murray, W. & Wright, M. H. (1981), Practical
optimization. Academic Press, London.
Hamledari, H., Rezazadeh Azar, E. & McCabe, B. (2017). IFCbased development of as-built and as-is BIMs using construction
and facility inspection data: Site-to-BIM data transfer
automation. Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, 32(2),
04017075.
Hansen, N. (2016). The CMA evolution strategy: A tutorial. arXiv
preprint, arXiv:1604.00772. https://arxiv.org/abs/1604.00772
Hansen, N., Auger, A., Ros, R., Finck, S. & Pošík, P. (2010).
Comparing results of 31 algorithms from the black-box
optimization benchmarking BBOB-2009. In Proceedings of the
12th annual conference companion on Genetic and evolutionary
computation, pp. 1689-1696. doi:10.1145/1830761.1830790

15

Hansen, N. & Ostermeier, A. (2001), Completely derandomized
self-adaptation
in
evolution
strategies.
Evolutionary
Computation, 9(2), 159-195.
Henry, P., Krainin, M., Herbst, E., Ren, X. & Fox, D. (2012). RGBD mapping: Using Kinect-style depth cameras for dense 3D
modeling of indoor environments. The International Journal of
Robotics Research, 31(5), 647-663.
Holgado-Barco, A., Riveiro, B., González‐Aguilera, D. & Arias, P.
(2017). Automatic inventory of road cross‐sections from mobile
laser scanning system. Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure
Engineering, 32(1), 3-17.
Houshiar, H. & Nüchter, A. (2015). 3D point cloud compression
using conventional image compression for efficient data
transmission. In Proceedings of the 2015 XXV International
Conference on Information, Communication and Automation
Technologies
(ICAT),
pp.
1-8.
IEEE.
doi:10.1109/ICAT.2015.7340499
Ilter, D. & Ergen, E. (2015), BIM for building refurbishment and
maintenance: Current status and research directions. Structural
Survey, 33(3), 228-256.
Jung, J., Hong, S., Jeong, S., Kim, S., Cho, H., Hong, S. & Heo, J.
(2014). Productive modeling for development of as-built BIM of
existing indoor structures. Automation in Construction, 42, 6877.
Kaveh, A., Kalateh-Ahani, M. & Masoudi, M. S. (2011). The CMA
evolution strategy based size optimization of truss structures.
International Journal of Optimization in Civil Engineering, 1(2),
233-56.
Koo, C., Hong, T., Yoon, J. & Jeong, K. (2016). Zoning‐based
vertical transportation optimization for workers at peak time in a
skyscraper
construction.
Computer‐Aided
Civil
and
Infrastructure Engineering, 31(11), 826-845.
Koppula, H. S., Anand, A., Joachims, T. & Saxena, A. (2011).
Semantic labeling of 3d point clouds for indoor scenes. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 24, pp. 244252. Available at: http://papers.nips.cc/paper/4226-semanticlabeling-of-3d-point-clouds-for-indoor-scenes.pdf
Lagüela, S., Díaz-Vilariño, L., Martínez, J. & Armesto, J. (2013).
Automatic thermographic and RGB texture of as-built BIM for
energy rehabilitation purposes. Automation in Construction, 31,
230-240.
Lee, D. S., Gonzalez, L. F., Periaux, J. & Srinivas, K. (2008),
Robust design optimisation using multi-objective evolutionary
algorithms. Computers & Fluids, 37(5), 565-583.
Li, W., Pu, H., Schonfeld, P., Yang, J., Zhang, H., Wang, L. &
Xiong, J. (2017). Mountain railway alignment optimization with
bidirectional distance transform and genetic algorithm.
Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering, 32(8),
691-709.
Mitra, N. J. & Pauly, M. (2008), Symmetry for architectural
design. In Advances in Architectural Geometry (AAG2008), pp.
13-16.
Available
at:
http://www.architecturalgeometry.org/aag08/aag08proceedingspapers_and_poster_abstracts.pdf
National Institute of Building Sciences (NIBS) (2015), National
Building Information Modeling Standard. Version 3, Retrieved
from https://www.nationalbimstandard.org/
Nex, F. & Remondino, F. (2014), UAV for 3D mapping
applications: A review. Applied Geomatics, 6(1), 1-15.

16

Xue, Lu & Chen

Nguyen, T. H., Oloufa, A. A. & Nassar, K. (2005), Algorithms for
automated deduction of topological information. Automation in
Construction, 14, 59-70.
Nicosia, G. & Stracquadanio, G. (2008), Generalized pattern search
algorithm for peptide structure prediction. Biophysical Journal,
95(10), 4988-4999.
Nüchter, A. (2009), 3D robotic mapping: The simultaneous
localization and mapping problem with six degrees of freedom,
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg.
Schnabel, R., Wahl, R. & Klein, R. (2007), Efficient RANSAC for
point-cloud shape detection. Computer Graphics Forum, 26(2),
214-226. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8659.2007.01016.x
Pătrăucean, V., Armeni, I., Nahangi, M., Yeung, J., Brilakis, I. &
Haas, C. (2015), State of research in automatic as-built
modelling. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 29(2), 162-171.
Perez-Perez, Y., Golparvar-Fard, M. & El-Rayes, K. (2016),
Semantic and geometric labeling for enhanced 3D point cloud
segmentation. In Proceedings of Construction Research
Congress 2016, pp. 2542-2552. doi:10.1061/9780784479827.253
Quintana, B., Prieto, S. A., Adán, A. & Bosché, F. (2018). Door
detection in 3D coloured point clouds of indoor environments.
Automation in Construction, 85, 146-166.
Sacks, R., Ma, L., Yosef, R., Borrmann, A., Daum, S. & Kattel, U.
(2017). Semantic enrichment for building information modeling:
Procedure for compiling inference rules and operators for
complex geometry. Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering,
31(6), 04017062.
Santagati, C. & Turco, M. L. (2017), From structure from motion to
historical building information modeling: Populating a semanticaware library of architectural elements. Journal of Electronic
Imaging, 26(1), 011007.
Snavely, N., Seitz, S. M. & Szeliski, R. (2008), Modeling the world
from internet photo collections. International Journal of
Computer Vision, 80(2), 189-210.
Song, M., Shen, Z. & Tang, P. (2014), Data quality-oriented 3D
laser scan planning. In Proceedings of Construction Research
Congress 2014, pp. 984-993. doi:10.1061/9780784413517.101
Tang, P., Huber, D., Akinci, B., Lipman, R. & Lytle, A. (2010),
Automatic reconstruction of as-built building information models
from laser-scanned point clouds: A review of related
techniques. Automation in Construction, 19(7), 829-843.
Valero, E., Adán, A. & Cerrada, C. (2012), Automatic method for
building indoor boundary models from dense point clouds
collected by laser scanners. Sensors, 12(12), 16099-16115.
Wang, C., Peng, Y., Cho, Y. & Li, H. (2011), As-built residential
building information collection and modeling methods for energy
analysis. In Proceedings of the 28th International Symposium on
Automation and Robotics in Construction (ISARC), Seoul, Korea,
pp.
227-232.
Available
at:
http://www.irbnet.de/daten/iconda/CIB_DC23633.pdf
Wang, Q., Cheng, J. C. & Sohn, H. (2017). Automated estimation
of reinforced precast concrete rebar positions using colored laser
scan data. Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering,
32, 787-802.
Wang, Z., Bovik, A. C., Sheikh, H. R. & Simoncelli, E. P. (2004),
Image quality assessment: From error visibility to structural
similarity. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 13(4), 600612.
Wang, Z. & Simoncelli, E. P. (2008), Maximum differentiation
(MAD) competition: A methodology for comparing

computational models of perceptual quantities. Journal of Vision,
8(12), 8.
Xiong, X., Adan, A., Akinci, B. & Huber, D. (2013), Automatic
creation of semantically rich 3D building models from laser
scanner data. Automation in Construction, 31, 325-337.
Xiong, X. & Huber, D. (2010), Using Context to Create Semantic
3D Models of Indoor Environments. In Proceedings of the 21st
British Machine Vision Conference (BMVC2010), pp. 1-11.
Zhang, C., Kalasapudi, V. S. & Tang, P. (2016), Rapid data quality
oriented laser scan planning for dynamic construction
environments. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 30(2), 218232.
Zhang, G., Vela, P. A., Karasev, P. & Brilakis, I. (2015), A
Sparsity‐Inducing Optimization‐Based Algorithm for Planar
Patches
Extraction
from
Noisy
Point‐Cloud
Data.
Computer‐Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering, 30(2), 85102.
Zhu, X. X. & Shahzad, M. (2014). Facade reconstruction using
multiview spaceborne TomoSAR point clouds. IEEE
Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 52(6), 35413552.

