International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

International Journal of Project Management
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/ijproman

Mapping the knowledge domain of stakeholder perspective studies in
construction projects: A bibliometric approach
Jin Xue a, Geoﬀrey Qiping Shen a,∗, Rebecca Jing Yang b, Hengqin Wu a,c, Xiao Li a, Xue Lin d,
Fan Xue e
a

Department of Building and Real Estate, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong
School of Property, Construction and Project Management, RMIT University, Australia
c
School of Management, Harbin Institute of Technology, China
d
School of Government, Nanjing University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China
e
Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
b

a r t i c l e

i n f o

a b s t r a c t

Keywords:
Stakeholder
Knowledge map
Bibliometrics
Construction projects

Construction projects require the eﬀective collaboration among the various types of stakeholders involved to
succeed, thus leading to stakeholder perspective studies in construction projects. The study proposes an integrated bibliometric approach to detect the knowledge evolution, domain and frontier with a broader searching
scope compared with manual review. A total of 752 peer-reviewed academic papers published until the end of
2017 are used. The knowledge evolution indicates seven milestones in history, namely, stakeholder concept,
method, identiﬁcation, assessment, management, inﬂuence and complexity. The identiﬁed knowledge domain
consists of four major research areas which are society, sustainability, analytical tool and project management.
The knowledge frontier is also revealed, including a dearth of detailed discussions on stakeholder engagement in
sustainable urban projects, lack of generalisation of stakeholder studies in complex construction projects, limited
application of dynamic and simulation stakeholder analysis in uncertain project environment and few instant and
accurate approaches to integrate stakeholder information. The study provides a holistic knowledge map for the
past, current and future of stakeholder perspective studies in construction projects.

1. Introduction

Shen, Brandon & Baldwin, 2009). Moreover, construction projects
are on the way to achieve sustainability, which is critically driven
by support from project stakeholders (Gan, Zuo, Ye, Skitmore &
Xiong, 2015). According to previous studies, project stakeholders
are the direct participants and aﬀected people of the construction
projects (Guide, 2001). Their interactions and relationships directly
aﬀect project completion (Liu et al., 2015). In recent years, safety
accidents and community protests have occurred frequently during
the implementation of construction projects, resulting in cost overruns and time delays (Zhao, Mccoy, Kleiner, Mills & Lingard, 2016;
Zhou, Hou, Yang, Chong & Moon, 2019). The reason, apart from
the technical issues within the project team, is highly related to the
poor management of project stakeholders (Liu et al., 2015; Olander
& Landin, 2005). Therefore, several stakeholder perspective studies
in construction projects (SPCP) have been conducted with the aim
to improve project performance. As a result, some theories, frameworks and models have been established in this multi-disciplinary
ﬁeld which have focused on diﬀerent themes, such as infrastructure,

The stakeholder concept is important in strategic management
and is considered an essence of project management (Freeman, 1984;
Institute, 1987). With the fast development of the construction industry,
a growing number of complex projects are underway all over the world,
and they have far-reaching eﬀects on national and regional economic
development (Mok, Shen & Yang, 2015). A construction project is complex as it comprises various processes and participants (Yang, Shen &
Ho, 2009b). It involves a wide range of stakeholders who have diﬀerent
cultural and occupational backgrounds (Mok et al., 2015). Given the
temporary nature of stakeholder relationship in construction projects,
dealing with complexities is challenging for project stakeholders owing
to the of experience (Yang et al., 2009b). Construction projects are also
full of uncertainties due to their long-term duration (De Meyer, Loch
& Pich, 2002). Stakeholder collaboration is required to react instantly
when uncertain events happen (Read, Madani, Mokhtari & Hanks, 2017;

∗

Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: jin.xue@connect.polyu.hk (J. Xue), bsqpshen@polyu.edu.hk (G.Q. Shen), rebecca.yang@rmit.edu.au (R.J. Yang), hengqin.wu@connect.polyu.hk
(H. Wu), shell.x.li@connect.polyu.hk (X. Li), linxue@nju.edu.cn (X. Lin), xuef@hku.hk (F. Xue).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijproman.2020.07.007
Received 23 March 2018; Received in revised form 14 July 2020; Accepted 30 July 2020
0263-7863/© 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license. (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

sustainability, project decision making and construction technology
(El-Gohary, Osman & El-Diraby, 2006; Li et al., 2016a; Yang, Wang &
Jin, 2014).
Despite the recent increase in research, published studies that provide an overview map of this complex ﬁeld are lacking. Previous review
studies are based on the manual approach with the limitation on the
sampling scope (Oppong, Chan & Dansoh, 2017). Existing studies either
discuss the stakeholder management under the concept of the general
construction industry without highlighting the speciﬁc characteristics
of each sub-theme (Yang et al., 2009b) or only focus on one particular theme, lacking the overview of the whole knowledge domain (MOK
et al., 2015). In addition, comprehensively analysing citation information which reveals the chronological patterns and clustered topics in the
literature is diﬃcult for the traditional manual review studies (Li, Wu,
Shen, Wang & Teng, 2017c). To address the deﬁciencies, bibliometric
techniques have been developed to ﬁnd the bibliographic connections
among relevant literature quantitatively and accurately. With the help
of bibliometric tools, such as Citespace and Citnet, visualising the knowledge map of SPCP is possible, and connections among various studies
are revealed easily and unbiasedly because interpretations are obtained
less subjectively, especially compared with the manual review method
(Chen, Hu, Liu & Tseng, 2012).
This study aims to understand the past, current and future trends of
SPCP by drawing a full picture of existing research domains and highlighting the milestones in this ﬁeld. This study undertakes a bibliometric
analysis of SPCP-related publications from three perspectives: document
co-citation, keyword co-occurrence and timespan citation analyses. Using these quantitative means, the study explores the knowledge domain
(structured research area) and knowledge evolution (key literature milestones) in this ﬁeld. The knowledge frontier with the current gaps based
on the literature from 2015 to 2017 are then highlighted. Finally, a
knowledge map about SPCP is proposed, including evolution, domain
and frontier, to contribute to the future development of SPCP.

holder management theories: one was written by Yang et al. (2009b),
which was the ﬁrst review paper to overview the previous studies in
the construction ﬁeld; another was written by Mok et al. (2015), which
focused on the stakeholder management in the megaprojects; and the
third one was by Oppong et al. (2017), which was mainly on the issues
of stakeholder management performance.
Yang et al. (2009b) systematically extended general stakeholder theories into the construction sector. The authors pointed out the importance of establishing a practical framework and conducting network
analysis on stakeholder management in construction projects. As a pioneering review paper on SPCP research, the research objective was
focused on general construction projects. As the construction has the
fast development in the past ten years, SPCP research has been made to
achieve better collaborations of stakeholders in many speciﬁc branches
(i.e. urban development, megaproject, sustainability, construction technology). Thus, the previous review paper did not reﬂect the latest trend
of SPCP research across the various sub-areas of the construction industry. According to the statistics of Web of Science, the SPCP publication after 2009 reaches 855 whereas there are only 143 related
publications before 2009, which shows the dramatic increase in the
SPCP research calling for the new holistic knowledge map. After that,
Mok et al. (2015) reviewed stakeholder studies on megaprojects, since
when it has become one of the highest cited articles in the Web of Science database. However, the review paper was in the scope of megaprojects which is lacking a full picture of the other construction types.
Oppong et al. (2017) published a review paper on measuring stakeholder management performance. Since the stakeholder evaluation is
one component of the framework of stakeholder management (Yang &
Shen, 2014), more advanced analysis tools are still waiting for the review in other components, such as stakeholder identiﬁcation and stakeholder assessment.
In summary, these three manual reviews have played important roles
in the development of SPCP research, there are still improvements that
can be made. First, all three papers focused on the review of stakeholder
management theories. They have not covered the wide applications of
stakeholder analysis in various speciﬁc construction projects, thus not
showing the multi-disciplinary trend in this research ﬁeld. Second, each
of the three review papers did not cover a large dataset as the limitation
of searching terms. The authors referred the construction projects with
the terms, including “construction projects”, “infrastructure projects”,
and “civil engineering projects”. However, it is doubtful that the group
of search terms is suﬃcient to describe the diﬀerent kinds of construction work. Some literature is likely to be missed if only “construction”,
“infrastructure”, and “civil engineering” are used as search terms to describe the type of projects in the ﬁeld of construction. Therefore, the
expansion of search terms is needed to provide a full picture of construction projects.

2. Background
2.1. Stakeholder analysis in construction projects
The Stanford Research Institute ﬁrst took the concept of stakeholder
into the management domain in 1963. Then the stakeholder was clearly
regarded as a critical part of strategic management in a book written
by Freeman. In that book, the stakeholder is deﬁned as a group or
an individual who can impact or be impacted by the achievement of
the ﬁrm’s objectives (Freeman, 1984). Initially, the concept of stakeholder was focused on the corporation management until the Project
Management Institute extended this concept to the project management (Institute, 1987). Then, the later studies furtherly have identiﬁed
the stakeholders of a construction project not only include the project
members within the project (i.e. owner, consultant, contractor, suppliers), but also involve members from the project environs. (i.e. government, local community, public media). Based on stakeholders in construction projects, stakeholder studies initiated with the exploration of
the stakeholder theories, management process, and analysis methods
(Aaltonen, Jaakko & Tuomas, 2008; Yang et al., 2009b). According to
the ﬁndings of these fundamental researches, a systematic management
framework was established by Yang and Shen (2014). After that, stakeholder analysis has been conducted in diﬀerent construction branches
to help researchers to study on various construction related problems
from perspectives of stakeholder inﬂuence, stakeholder concerns, stakeholder expectations, and public participation(Li, Ng & Skitmore, 2012a,
2013; Olander, 2007; Zhuang, Qian, Visscher & Elsinga, 2017).

3. Research method
3.1. Bibliometric method for knowledge exploration
With the development of information technology, scientiﬁc index,
and visualization techniques, the bibliometric method provides researchers with a way to understand the connections and trends in the
literature. Bibliometric techniques explore the unheeded linkages based
on the bibliographic records of the literature. For instance: co-citation
analysis is helpful to cluster the scientiﬁc documents according to their
citation links and semantic similarities (Chen, Ibekwe‐sanjuan & Hou,
2010); co-occurrence keyword analysis is beneﬁcial for the detection of
the main research topics and methodologies in one research ﬁeld (Su &
Lee, 2010); and Timespan analysis is a useful way to ﬁnd the dynamics of research themes in terms of timeline(Abu, 2016). Besides these
techniques, there are some tools, such as Citespace, Citnet, Bibexcel,
Sci2, and VantagePoint, which visualizes the knowledge map of literature and provides detailed statistical results of the bibliometric analysis

2.2. Former review studies on SPCP
There are three important review papers in the ﬁeld of SPCP research, all three of which were manual reviews and focused on stake314

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

Table 1
The dataset for bibliometric analysis.

(Cobo, López‐herrera, Herrera‐viedma & Herrera, 2011). Among these
tools, Citespace is a powerful software to do the co-citation analysis
and co-occurrence keyword analysis (Chen et al., 2012), while Citnet
is good for the detection of high frequent citation articles in a timeline
(Van Eck & Waltman, 2014). In the ﬁeld of construction management,
a BIM knowledge map has been successfully completed through a bibliometric approach (LI et al., 2017c). Therefore, combined with bibliometric techniques and visualization tools, it would be feasible to make
a systematic exploration of SPCP knowledge and establish a knowledge
map to show an overview of the research ﬁeld.

Duration

After Step 1

After Step 2

Until 2017
2015–2017

998
526

752
408

domain (Chen et al., 2010). Based on this rule, the co-citation network
is created in which the individual node representing each article in the
dataset establishes a link between two co-cited articles. In the network,
the individual nodes could be clustered into several groups by their interconnectivity, which helps to identify each of the knowledge domains
in one research area (Li et al., 2017c).

3.2. Data collection
3.2.1. The database
Web of Science (WoS) is the database that was used in this research
to ﬁnd the literature related to the research ﬁeld. It contains the major
scientiﬁc publications, including literatures collected by Science Citation Index (SCI) and Social Science Citation Index (SSCI), which was the
database in many previous bibliometric studies as providing the comprehensive bibliographic records to conduct statistical analysis (Chen et al.,
2012; Chen, Dubin & Kim, 2014). There are several kinds of documents
collected by WoS, such as articles, proceedings papers, reviews, editorial material, and meeting abstracts. In this study, the peer-reviewed
articles and reviews were chosen for analysis since they are considered
to have better academic standing, which is in accordance with the recent
review studies done by Mok et al. (2015) and Derakhshan, Turner and
Mancini (2019).

3.3.2. Keyword co-occurrence analysis
Keyword co-occurrence analysis detects the frequency of the keywords that occur in diﬀerent articles of the dataset. If one word or phrase
is used as the keyword in many articles of the dataset, it is considered
that this word or phrase might indicate one of the research focuses in this
area (Chen et al., 2012). Hence, these co-occurrence keywords could be
regarded as the knowledge base of the study’s research issues (Li et al.,
2017c).
3.3.3. Time-span citation analysis
Time-span citation analysis detects high-impact articles in diﬀerent
periods during the development of the research issue. By counting the
citations of the articles in the dataset, the most frequently cited articles
could be found in a given time span (Van Eck & Waltman, 2014). From
a timeline perspective, it is important that the most frequently cited
articles in each period be tracked because the change of those articles
in each stage shows the knowledge evolution in this research area.

3.2.2. The searching terms
The searching terms are formed by two parts. One is stakeholderrelated words including “stakeholder”, “’project participant” and
“project environment”, which are referred by the previous review studies (Mok et al., 2015; Yang et al., 2009b). Another is project-related
words that are necessary to be expanded for better describing diﬀerent
types of construction as previously stated in 2.2.
In general, there are three types of construction projects: building, infrastructure, and industrial (Chitkara, 1998). Based on the classiﬁcation
standard of the Engineering News-Record (ENR), infrastructure could be
further divided into 17 sub-groups, and industrial is formed by 6 types
of projects (Enr, 2014; Halpin, 2010). Additionally, large construction
projects are often referred to as “megaprojects” (Mok et al., 2015), construction projects conducted by government are usually termed “public works” (Jacobson & Ok Choi, 2008), and “civil engineering” is also
regarded as one major expression of construction type in many cases
(Oppong et al., 2017).
Consequently, a framework of searching terms as Table S1 in the
appendix is built for the data collection. The wildcard character ∗ is
used to deal with relevant variations of one word, such as “construction
project” and “construction projects”. The ﬁnal searching string consists
of stakeholder-related words and project-related words by Boolean operator ∗ AND∗ /∗ OR∗ (Di Maddaloni & Davis, 2017), shown in Table S2
in appendix.

3.4. Framework of research method
With the help of the three basic bibliometric techniques mentioned
above, it is feasible to draw the framework of the research method as
shown in Fig. 1.
Step 1: The data collection was conducted with the keywords formed
by stakeholder-related and project-related words with WoS database.
The bibliographical records were extracted for further analysis.
Step 2: The data retrieval was made manually based on the twostage process adopted by previous literature studies (Mok et al., 2015;
Yang, Shen, Ho, Drew & Xue, 2011) to ﬁlter out the irrelevant literature.
In the ﬁrst stage, publications not including the keywords in the title or
the abstract were screened out. In the second stage, the less irrelevant
literature was excluded through the fast scanning of the content of the
title and abstract in each record. After that, the remaining records were
for the later bibliometric analysis.
Step 3: The data analysis was processed by three bibliometric methods. First, time-span citation analysis traced the knowledge evolution of
SPCP. Second, the document co-citation analysis was used to ﬁnd the
knowledge domain of SPCP. Third, keyword co-occurrence analysis explored the knowledge frontier of SPCP. The whole dataset was used in
the ﬁrst and second procedures to reﬂect the existing achievements in
SPCP. While the dataset used in the third analysis covered publications
from 2015 to 2017 for showing the latest research trend.
Step 4: The holistic knowledge map of SPCP was drawn according to
the results of data analysis.

3.2.3. Bibliographic records
In this study, according to the previous bibliometric study by
Li et al. (2017c), bibliographic records from the web of science are used,
which includes the name list of authors, the title, the abstract, the keywords, the volume number, the DOI reference, and all the references
cited by the article.
3.3. Data analysis

4. Results
3.3.1. Document co-citation analysis
Document co-citation analysis detects the distribution of frequent
co-cited articles in the dataset. As each scientiﬁc paper has a list of references, if two articles are often co-cited in the reference list of diﬀerent papers, it is likely that these two articles share a similar research

4.1. Results of data collection
As Table 1 shows, after the step 1 described in Fig. 1, a total of
998 publications were found in the WoS database, including 526 (53%)
315

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

Fig. 1. Research framework of this study.

Table 2
Top-ranked clusters.
Cluster ID

Size

Silhouette-value

Cluster Name

Category

0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13

36
31
30
29
26
20
17
14
13
11
11
11
11
10

0.794
0.784
0.912
0.965
0.932
0.994
1
1
1
1
0.96
0.972
0.965
0.994

Social competencies
Decision-making strategies
Risk path
Building information modelling
Stakeholder management
PPP project
Sustainability deliverable
Wind turbine
Building assessment tool
Waste management
Systems integration
Green real estate development
Sustainability assessment
Project delay

Society
Tool
Project
Tool
Project
Project
Sustainability
Sustainability
Sustainability
Sustainability
Tool
Sustainability
Sustainability
Project

published in the last three years (Deadline of data collection was on
31/12/2017). It can be seen from the data that SPCP related research
has developed the fastest in the past three years, which indicates the
need for a new map to show the current knowledge domain in this ﬁeld.
After step 2 described in Fig. 1, 752 such publications, including 408
in the last three years, were chosen to form the dataset by two-stage
process in the data retrieval. The dataset completed after Step 2 was
used for further analysis.

the society related issue is a major knowledge domain in SPCP. The
building information modelling (Cluster 3) is another critical area. On
one hand, many BIM studies focus on stakeholder participation in construction projects. One the other hand, the approaches of stakeholder
analysis are under fast development with the support of the advanced
construction technology. Interestingly, the theoretical studies in stakeholder management (Cluster 4) are not in the largest cluster, as it is
ranked behind social issues and BIM studies. The result proves the necessity of bibliometric analysis in SPCP to explore the wider research
areas besides the stakeholder theories which have been summarized by
former reviews. Another signiﬁcant knowledge domain is on the issue of
sustainability. A group of top-ranked clusters is related to this topic, including sustainability deliverable (Cluster 6), wind turbine (Cluster 7),
waste management (Cluster 9), green real estate development (Cluster
11), and sustainability assessment (Cluster 12).

4.2. Knowledge domain
The literature co-citation network can be clustered into groups by the
interconnectivity of the nodes. Cluster labels are then derived by using
a statistical method called LLR (log-likelihood ratio test). This method
labels each cluster by calculating and ranking the signiﬁcant value of
words that frequently appear in the abstract of publications from the
network (Chen et al., 2010).
Fig. 2 shows the result of the clustering analysis in the ﬁeld of SPCP.
There are 14 large clusters listed in Table 2 with each one having at
least 10 group members. The Silhouette-value of each cluster is more
than 0.75, which means the result is valid and can be used for further
interpretation (Chen et al., 2010). The largest cluster is the social competencies (Cluster 0), which includes 36 publications. This cluster shows

4.3. Knowledge evolution
The result of the time-span analysis is shown in Fig. 3. As the graph
shows, knowledge evolution can be divided into four stages in terms of
the timeline. The ﬁrst stage is the period before 1990s, which is the birth
stage of SPCP. The second stage is the growth stage when stakeholder
316

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

Fig. 2. Clusters of knowledge domains on SPCP research.
Table 3
Key milestones of SPCP research by timeline.
Birth (Before 1990s)

Growth (1991–2000)

Prosperity (2001–2010)

Orientation (2011–2017)

Concepts of stakeholders:
Public participation:
Arnstein (1969)
Stakeholder:
Freeman (1984)
Morris, Pwg (1987)
Methods of stakeholders:
AHP:
Saaty, Tl (1980)
Case study:
Eisenhardt, Km (1989)

Identiﬁcation of stakeholders:
Mitchell et al. (1997)

Management of stakeholders:
Social related issues
Social acceptance:
Rolf Wüstenhagen et al. (2007)

Complexity of stakeholders:
Stakeholder concerns:
H.Y.Li (2012)

Assessment of stakeholders:
Critical success factors:
Sanvido et al. (1992)
Network analysis:
Wasserman (1994)
Timothy J. Rowley (1997)

Sustainability related issues
Wind power projects:
Patrick Devine Wright (2005)
Project related issues
PPP projects:
Nora M. El-Gohary (2006)
Inﬂuence of stakeholders:
Stefan Olander (2005)
Derek H.T. Walker (2005)
Stefan Olander (2007)

Megaprojects:
Flyvbjerg, B (2014)
Ka Yan Mok (2015)

4.4. Knowledge frontier

perspective studies ﬁrst started to appear in the 1990s. The third stage
is the prosperity stage from 2000 to 2010, during which time a lot of
classical SPCP research was undertaken. The fourth stage is the new research orientation era since 2011, during which some new directions of
SPCP have been presented. The knowledge evolution path is presented
according to the key milestones of SPCP as shown in Table. 3. In the
ﬁrst stage there only a few frequently cited papers, although each one
played a fundamental role in the ﬁeld of SPCP by providing the basic
concepts and methodologies. In the second stage, there were two major occurrences: methods on stakeholder identiﬁcation and assessment.
In the third stage, there are a lot of stakeholder perspective researches
emerging in various sub-areas of SPCP. In the fourth stage, some very
frequently cited articles indicated the new direction in the ﬁeld of SPCP.

The keywords co-occurrence network from 2015 to 2017 is shown
in Fig. 4 which highlights the most frequent occurrence keywords by
larger characters. Based on the most frequently used terms, the latest
research frontier is presented by three aspects: research topics, targets,
and methods. The popular terms under each aspect are shown in Fig. 5
which have interdependencies with each other. For instance, according
to the linkage information of the network, the stakeholder analysis has
been conducted on sustainability in megaprojects and ppp projects respectively. The stakeholder issues in megaprojects have been discussed
by case study. The network analysis has been applied to analyse the
stakeholder performance in the BIM management process.

317

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

Fig. 3. Results of Time-span analysis.

Fig. 4. Keywords co-occurrence network from 2015 to 2017.

318

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

Fig. 5. Current hot terms in the latest SPCP research.

5. Discussion and implications

(Arnstein, 1969). In the citizen ladder proposed by Arnstein (1969),
public participation was assessed by citizen power, which ﬁrst highlighted the impact of external stakeholders (general public, NGO and
government) engagement towards construction projects. Since then, a
number of urban studies were at the stakeholder engagement level
(Larson, Measham & Williams, 2010; Mahjabeen, Shrestha & Dee, 2003),
and they provided various engagement methods for project stakeholders in practice, including interviews, forums, focus groups, surveys and
workshops (Larson et al., 2010). The concept of public participation
was then further introduced into the stakeholder management domain
as the term ‘stakeholder participation’ (Li, Ng, Skitmore & Li, 2016b).
Stakeholder participation was considered an essential engagement to
improve the chance of project success by prioritising stakeholder concerns (Li et al., 2012a) and maximising stakeholder satisfaction (Li et al.,
2013).
In the aspect of stakeholder methodologies, Saaty (1980) was the
ﬁrst to introduce the analytic hierarchy process (AHP) model, an essential tool to analyse the complex multi-criteria decisions among project
stakeholders. Given the lack of participatory tools in stakeholder negotiations, the AHP method is useful for stakeholder involvement in
the group decision judgement process (Ananda & Herath, 2003). The
method was widely used to integrate stakeholder preferences in the
decision-making process in transportation planning (Dalal, Mohapatra &
Mitra, 2010; Wakchaure & Jha, 2012), quality management (Lam, Lam
& Wang, 2008) and construction sustainability assessment (Alwaer &
Clements-Croome, 2010; Mostafa & El-Gohary, 2014).
Case study was another critical method. Eisenhardt (1989) introduced this method as a suitable means for exploring a new research
area with inadequate existing theories. Exploratory case study was popular in the stakeholder management domain for studying the problems
and challenges of SPCP (Mok, Shen & Yang, 2017a). Based on another
classical study by Yin (2003)), case study can be divided into two approaches: single-case research and multiple-cases study. Generally, most
case studies in the stakeholder management domain are single-case studies (Mok, Shen & Yang, 2017b; Ogunlana, 2010) or two-comparativecases studies (Olander & Landin, 2005, 2008; Yang et al., 2014). A
limitation of the small number of cases is the generalisations of the
research ﬁndings, which is a bottleneck in the development of SPCP
(Mok, Shen, Yang & Li, 2017c). The information-oriented case sampling
strategy was applied to minimise the restrictions of the small sample
size (Flyvbjerg, 2006).

5.1. Milestones in the development of SPCP
The literature milestones in each stage obtained from the timespan
analysis (see Table 3) highlight the classical research ﬁndings in SPCP.
Generally, the knowledge trend starts at the birth of basic stakeholder
concepts and methods, followed by the formation of stakeholder theories and then the application stage in various sub-areas. This trend
indicates the direction of SPCP from the explorations of fundamental
theories to the practice in multi-disciplinary areas of the construction
industry.
5.1.1. Birth stage: concept and method of stakeholders
The ﬁrst stage is the birth of the basic concepts and methodologies
in SPCP. In terms of stakeholder concepts, the noticeable deﬁnition of
stakeholders came from the famous book Strategic Management: A Stakeholder Approach written by Freeman (1984). A clear deﬁnition of stakeholder was ﬁrst suggested in this book: ‘any group or individual who
can aﬀect or is aﬀected by the achievement of the ﬁrm’s objectives’.
This deﬁnition set the foundation of stakeholder management and was
further interpreted by Cleland and Kerzner (1986), who listed eighteen project stakeholders, bringing the stakeholder concept from corporation management into project management. Following, Morris and
Hough (1987) ﬁrst pointed out that multi-organisational management
is a determinant of large complex projects’ success, indicating the importance of stakeholder concept in the construction project management domain. Afterward, terms like ‘group and individual’ and ‘affect and aﬀected’ developed by Freeman (1984) were ﬁnally incorporated and translated into the project stakeholder concept deﬁned by
Project Management Institute (PMI) (Institute, 1987) as ‘those individuals and organisations actively involved in a project or whose interests
may be aﬀected as a result of project execution or completion’. Basing on the deﬁnitions of Freeman and PMI, the stakeholder concept
was further described by various categories: external/internal (Atkin &
Skitmore, 2008), direct/indirect (Lester, 2006), proponents/opponents
(Bonke & Winch, 2002) and core/fringe (Hart & Sharma, 2004).
Another critical concept was public participation, which was an incentive to initiate stakeholder analysis in construction projects. Through
the fast development of the economy, the demand for proper management strategies appeared as the frequent interactions between the
public and traditional project stakeholders in urban renewal projects
319

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

5.1.2. Growth stage: identiﬁcation and assessment of stakeholders
In the early 1990s, SPCP reached the growth stage wherein methods
to address the problems of stakeholder identiﬁcation and assessment
were proposed. The ‘power, legitimacy, urgency’ model proposed by
Mitchell, Agle and Wood (1997) set the principles to insightfully identify
the critical stakeholder by its inﬂuence level on organisational activities.
The model is the inﬂuential work for identifying critical stakeholders by
their attributes and is the basis of a series of critical stakeholder identiﬁcation methods, including the ‘power/interest matrix’ (Scholes, Johnson
& Whittington, 2002) and ‘stakeholder circle methodology’ (Bourne &
Walker, 2005). However, the static attributes-based model cannot reﬂect the stakeholder dynamics as the levels of attributes often vary
over time through the development of construction projects (Yang et al.,
2009b).
In terms of stakeholder assessment, two signiﬁcant methods
emerged. One approach is the critical success factors (CFSs) that
was ﬁrst identiﬁed by Sanvido, Grobler, Parﬁtt, Guvenis and
Coyle (1992) in the construction industry. Since then CSFs and the
related survey-based method have become an essential part of SPCP.
Sanvido et al. (1992) claimed that various stakeholders (owners, designers and contractors) had common and unique CSFs in construction
projects and that exploring these factors was worthwhile for achieving project success. Cleland (1999) then emphasised the signiﬁcance
of CSFs in stakeholder management seeing that the project team must
know whether the project stakeholders were managed successfully or
not. The CSFs of stakeholder management in construction projects were
discovered by Yang, Shen, Drew and Ho (2009a), and they were stakeholder identiﬁcation, assessment, decision making, action and evaluation and continuous support. The identiﬁed CSFs of stakeholder management was further applied by Oppong et al. (2017) to guide the strategies
for improving stakeholder management performance. As CSFs are signiﬁcantly related to management performance, the assessment of the
preferred CSFs of project stakeholders attracted a group of SPCP in a
broad theme, such as green buildings and public–private partnership
(PPP) projects (Liang, Shen & Guo, 2015; Osei-Kyei & Chan, 2017).
Another assessment tool was network analysis, which was comprehensively presented by a book written by Wasserman and Faust (1994).
The book introduced social network analysis (SNA) as a relational measure to systematically assess the interactions among various organisations. Later, Rowley (1997) was the ﬁrst to analyse stakeholder inﬂuence
with SNA by combining the methodology of SNA with a stakeholderrelated study. Afterward, Yang et al. (2009b) adopted the SNA technique
to analyse the stakeholder relationship in construction projects because
it was useful to visualise and examine various project stakeholders as a
system rather than a group of independent focal organisations with the
dyadic ties presented by Freeman (1984). The SNA approach was further recommended by Mok et al. (2015) for stakeholder analysis on the
complexities in mega construction projects. Currently, two types of SNA
approaches are employed for stakeholder assessment. One is to evaluate the relationship among project stakeholders (Mok et al., 2017a).
Another is to assess the interactions of stakeholder-associated issues in
the projects (Mok et al., 2017c). Both approaches provide researchers
with a robust assessment tool to understand the stakeholder positions in
construction projects.

risks entails seeking of eﬀective assessment tools, involvement processes
and response strategies. The stakeholder network evaluation approach
was developed by Boutilier and Zdziarski (2017) to assist project managers in maintaining a high level of social license for a project. In addition, Benn, Dunphy and Martin (2009) established the stakeholder involvement framework to address the socio-political risks by considering
stakeholder interactions, narrative theory, leadership styles and reﬂexive management. Moreover, Aaltonen and Sivonen (2009) provided the
response strategies for project stakeholder pressures on social-political
issues, including adaptation strategy, compromising strategy, avoidance
strategy, dismissal strategy and inﬂuence strategy. The management of
community stakeholders was focused on identiﬁcation, impact analysis and managerial implications. The identiﬁcation of community stakeholders was categorised into four groups: communities of place, communities of interests, communities of practice and virtual advocacy groups
(Dunham, Freeman & Liedtka, 2006). These stakeholders were considered to exert unseen power and inﬂuence on the success of project delivery (Bourne & Walker, 2005; Olander & Landin, 2008). The engagement
of community stakeholders in decision making is essential to improve
the stakeholder management of construction projects (Di Maddaloni &
Davis, 2017). The stakeholder management of the construction marketing issues led to the research on stakeholder perspective measurement,
which was beneﬁcial for improving organisation business performance
in the construction market (Love & Holt, 2000; Rodriguez‐Melo & Mansouri, 2011).
In the aspect of sustainability, public perception was discussed in wind energy projects, which emphasized the essence
of general public support and local community involvement on
project success (Devine‐Wright, 2005). The leading research by
Devine‐Wright (2005) indicates the criticalness of external stakeholder management in green projects. The external stakeholder management of green projects consists of understanding the stakeholder
visions (Château, Chang, Chen & Ko, 2012), organising eﬀective
stakeholder consultation and involvement (Gray, Haggett & Bell,
2005; Martin & Rice, 2015) and encouraging stakeholder empowerment (Alvial-Palavicino, Garrido-Echeverría, Jiménez-Estévez, Reyes &
Palma-Behnke, 2011). In terms of stakeholder visions, besides the traditional community meeting method (Hall & Lazarus, 2015), a group
modelling approach was introduced to simulate the stakeholder visions
on wind farm projects. This approach provided an innovative simulation
perspective to understand the stakeholder perception with the proposed
management strategy before implementation (Château et al., 2012).
Moreover, integrated with the stakeholder studies in green projects, the
conceptual framework of stakeholder participation was ﬁnally developed by Jami and Walsh (2014) to guide stakeholder consultation in
wind energy projects through ﬁve steps: inform, consult, involve, collaborate and empower.
In the project domain, the stakeholder involvement model was established for managing stakeholders in PPP projects (El-Gohary et al.,
2006). The model was built for better communication among project
proponents and stakeholders by capturing and integrating stakeholder
interests in the management process. The article opened the window
for other SPCP on the management process in PPP projects. Focused
on the stakeholder management process, Henjewele, Fewings and Rwelamila (2013) proposed a multi-stakeholder management framework for
PPP projects by combining the management process with project phases,
which assisted project managers in stakeholder management in the PPP
project lifecycle. Ng, Wong and Wong (2013) enhanced the stakeholder
management process of PPP projects by linking stakeholder engagement
activities in each project phase. In response to the stakeholder dynamics in the management process, the dynamic dual stakeholder management tool and ex-ante stakeholder inclusion were introduced to mitigate
stakeholder conﬂicts, and they further upgraded the stakeholder management process in PPP projects (De Schepper, Dooms & Haezendonck,
2014).

5.1.3. Prosperity stage: management and inﬂuence of stakeholders
In the third stage, SPCP were prosperous as they gradually extended
the knowledge domain from general stakeholder theories to speciﬁc
sub-areas of the project issues, including stakeholder management on
social acceptance, sustainability and PPP projects. Regarding socialrelated issues, social acceptance was conceptualised by three aspects:
socio-political acceptance, community acceptance and market acceptance, which required the support of a wide range of stakeholders towards a speciﬁc project (Wüstenhagen, Wolsink & Bürer, 2007). The
three aspects set a model on how to evaluate the social impact on
stakeholder perspective. The stakeholder management of socio-political
320

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

Furthermore, stakeholder inﬂuence analysis was particularly discussed, leading to the development of the measurement tools. The
source of major measurement tools was the ‘power, legitimacy, urgency’ model (Mitchell et al., 1997). The reason is that power is considered the critical attribute to assess stakeholder inﬂuence. Three classical tools were developed in this period. Firstly, the power/interest
matrix was ﬁrst proposed by Scholes et al. (2002) in the corporate
management. Olander and Landin (2005) then introduced this tool into
project management by mapping the stakeholders and their inﬂuences
in two construction projects. Secondly, the stakeholder circle was designed by Bourne and Walker (2005) to visualise the power and inﬂuence of stakeholders in a project. Thirdly, Olander (2007) developed
the stakeholder impact index by integrating the stakeholder attribute
model (Mitchell et al., 1997), stakeholder position theory (McElroy &
Mills, 2000) and power/interest matrix (Scholes et al., 2002). The index
tool was further enhanced by Nguyen, Skitmore and Wong (2009) by
supplementing the perspective of stakeholder knowledge. However, the
series of stakeholder inﬂuence analysis tools relied heavily on the cognitive information of project managers, and thus lacked eﬃciency when
employed in complex construction projects (Yang et al., 2009b).

society and sustainability are two interesting focal areas. The former has
the largest cluster, whereas the latter contains the greatest number of
clusters, representing the hotspots in SPCP.
Regarding the largest cluster, society-related issues (Cluster 0 in
Table 2) represent a major knowledge domain in SPCP, which is echoed
by the social impact research from Di Maddaloni and Davis (2017) and
Boutilier and Zdziarski (2017). As public participation is a critical driving force to stimulate the demand for stakeholder studies stated in
5.1, many discussions in SPCP are on how to deal with the interactions between project stakeholders and the public (Jami & Walsh, 2014;
Li, Thomas Ng & Skitmore, 2015; Xie, Yang, Hu & Chan, 2014). To
achieve better performance in stakeholder interactions, a fuzzy approach was adopted to test stakeholder satisfaction during the public’s
participation in a construction project (LI et al., 2013). Corporate social
responsibility in construction projects was also studied from the perspective of stakeholder power (Lin, Ho & Shen, 2018b). The hierarchy of
stakeholder power on social responsibility in construction projects was
discussed through stakeholder impact and stakeholder network analyses (Lin, Ho & Shen, 2017, 2018a). Moreover, most public works attract huge public attention because they use the public budget and have
deep social impact, thus requiring clear identiﬁcations of stakeholder
concerns to detect the key challenges and associated risks among stakeholders (Li et al., 2016b; Li, Ng & Skitmore, 2012b; Mok et al., 2017c).
Six clusters related to the knowledge domain of sustainability in
SPCP, which indicates the wide application of stakeholder analysis in
the ﬁeld, also echoed by Hörisch, Freeman and Schaltegger (2014).
Generally, the sustainability domain can be divided into three parts.
The ﬁrst part is to introduce stakeholder analysis to the approaches
for sustainability assessment (Clusters 6, 8 and 12 in Table 2) in
construction projects. For the evaluation of project sustainability, the
environmental assessment method was developed from stakeholder
perspective, and stakeholder-associated risks were assessed (Wong &
Abe, 2014; Yang, Zou & Wang, 2016). To achieve better sustainable projects, the cost of sustainability-related components was analysed from the stakeholder perspective (Goh & Yang, 2014). The second part is stakeholder engagement in green energy projects. One
hotspot is the wind energy projects (Cluster 7 in Table 2). It has
not been mentioned in any review papers of SPCP but in fact consists of a group of studies on stakeholder engagement detected by
clustering analysis. It includes stakeholder engagement in the aspects
of community participation, value-sensitive design, land use planning
and energy policy (Alvial-Palavicino et al., 2011; Gold, 2011; Hall &
Lazarus, 2015; Martin & Rice, 2015; Oosterlaken, 2015; Veidemane &
Nikodemus, 2015). SPCP on wind energy projects can set a valuable
reference to guide subsequent studies of stakeholder engagement in
other renewable energy projects. The third part concerns stakeholder
involvement of environmental protection in construction projects. One
application is in waste management (Cluster 9 in Table 2). The research advocates that the amelioration of stakeholders’ awareness and
behaviour is a useful measure for dealing with construction waste
(Lu, Peng, Webster & Zuo, 2015; Saez, Del Río Merino, González &
Porras-Amores, 2013; Yuan, 2013). Another application focuses on
green real estate projects (Cluster 11 in Table 2). The key stakeholders were identiﬁed, and the transaction costs of these stakeholders
were analysed to maximise the value of environment-friendly building projects (Li, Wu & Wu, 2017b; Qian, Chan & Khalid, 2015; Zhang,
2015).
The other two knowledge domains in SPCP are tool and project issues. Regarding tool-related issues, SPCP have developed a series of effective approaches to analyse problems in construction project management (Mok et al., 2015). Stakeholder assessment is a critical analytical
component in the decision-making process (Cluster 1 in Table 2), which
is useful in identifying stakeholder-associated risks in the early stage of
projects (Williams, Ferdinand & Pasian, 2015; Yang et al., 2014). Moreover, the development of building information modelling (BIM) technology (Cluster 3 in Table 2) provides a new tool to integrate stakeholder

5.1.4. Orientation stage: complexity of stakeholders
In the fourth stage, SPCP turned to the complexity of stakeholders
as construction projects became increasingly complicated, which indicated new orientations in this ﬁeld. Firstly, SPCP concentrated on the
complexity of stakeholder concerns because conﬂicting concerns among
stakeholders intensiﬁed project complexity (Atkin & Skitmore, 2008).
The research of stakeholder concerns was started by LI et al. (2012a),
who emphasised the criticalness of exploring the conﬂicts and consensus from the multiple stakeholder concerns. The stakeholder concerns were further considered as an aspect of stakeholder complexity by
Mok et al. (2017a), who recommended the network analysis approach to
analyse the complex interactions of stakeholder concerns. The networkbased approach was explicitly introduced to reduce stakeholder complexity by identifying the critical position of stakeholder concerns with
theoretical network indicators (Mok et al., 2017c). With the prioritisation of stakeholder concerns by network analysis, a group of project
risks and challenges were detected in a variety of projects, including infrastructure (Mok et al., 2017c), urban redevelopment (Yu et al., 2017)
and prefabricated housing projects (Luo, Qiping Shen, Xu, Liu & Wang,
2019).
Secondly, megaprojects have played a signiﬁcant role in SPCP in recent years. The megaproject review written by Flyvbjerg (2014) was
widely cited in SPCP. Mok et al. (2015) followed this trend and wrote
an inﬂuential review paper on stakeholder studies in mega construction projects. This paper provided a national culture analysis, a lifecycle analysis and a SNA and established a database which formed the
four major directions for SPCP when facing the complexity in megaprojects (Mok et al., 2015). Subsequently, stakeholder investigations of
megaprojects were undertaken under various national cultural contexts to understand the stakeholder management measures in diﬀerent
countries (Di Maddaloni & Davis, 2018; Park, Kim, Kim & Kim, 2017;
Yang et al., 2018). Moreover, stakeholder management studies of longterm megaprojects were conducted to explore the stakeholder dynamics in complex project environment (Eskerod & Ang, 2017; Park et al.,
2017). SNA was employed to visualise stakeholder complexity and manage stakeholder relationship in megaprojects (Mok et al., 2017b). However, a stakeholder database of megaprojects is lacking to provide adequate empirical data for generalising the stakeholder theories facing the
complexity of megaprojects.
5.2. Major knowledge domains of SPCP
According to the clustering results of co-citation analysis, the knowledge domains of SPCP can be further interpreted as four major issues:
society, sustainability, analytical tool and project management. Of them,
321

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

information for achieving better stakeholder collaboration (He et al.,
2017b; Li et al., 2017a, 2016a). SPCP also explore approaches to address the conﬂicts arising from complex system integration (Cluster 10
in Table 2) (Davies & Mackenzie, 2014; Mok et al., 2017a). In terms
of project-related issues, SPCP contributes to construction project management research (Oppong et al., 2017; Yang et al., 2009b). Firstly,
general stakeholder theories in construction projects are included
under this domain as the essence of stakeholder management (Cluster 4
in Table 2) on improving project performance (Atkin & Skitmore, 2008;
Mok et al., 2015; Yang & Shen, 2014). Secondly, stakeholder evaluations are incorporated into other critical project management studies,
including project risk and schedule management (Clusters 2 and 13 in
Table 2), for enhancing the relevant management performance from
stakeholder perspective (Benn et al., 2009; Braeckman & Guthrie, 2016;
Valentin, Naderpajouh & Abraham, 2018; Zhao et al., 2016).

management in megaprojects has been summarised case by case, generalised rules and guides are waiting to be concluded at the geographical level (Mok et al., 2015). PPP projects present a similar situation
is SPCP. The limitation of the generalisability of research ﬁndings is
highlighted due to the sampling scope (Osei-Kyei & Chan, 2017) and
inborn case deﬁciencies (Amadi, Carrillo & Tuuli, 2018; De Schepper
et al., 2014). One possible solution is to establish a database to organise the collected data in various empirical stakeholder research, as suggested by Mok et al. (2015). The database will be beneﬁcial for future
researchers of SPCP to generalise their ﬁndings through comprehensive
data and cases. Although the database-driven stakeholder research was
adopted in the area of corporate strategic management (Odziemkowska
& Henisz, 2016), an open-source database remains lacking in SPCP. In
summary, as the complexity increases the diﬃculties for exploring the
uniﬁed management standard, SPCP should start with a case study, and
future studies should generalise existing ﬁndings.

5.3. Trends in the frontier of SPCP
5.3.3. Dynamic and simulation stakeholder analysis in the uncertain
project environment
Faced with the uncertainty in the lifecycle of construction projects,
stakeholder studies require eﬀective approaches to analyse the dynamics of stakeholder interactions (De Schepper et al., 2014) and propose
strategies to improve the resilience against unpredictable events among
stakeholders (De Meyer et al., 2002). The current research methods
showed in Fig. 5 are still the classical ones initially developed before
the early 1990s, including network analysis and traditional quantitative and qualitative methods. The classical approaches require an upgrade to improve adaptability in tackling uncertainties. Regarding the
dynamic stakeholder analysis, the emerging advocacy for further studies is on how to upgrade the static network model to be a dynamic one
to reﬂect the change of stakeholder relationships when uncertainties
occur in construction projects (Mok et al., 2017c). The combination of
SNA and longitudinal data to conduct dynamic analysis is beneﬁcial to
understand the development of internal and external stakeholder networks in an uncertain project environment (Zheng, Le, Chan, Hu & Li,
2016). As an eﬀective tool to test the uncertainties in various scenarios in advance (Alzraiee, Zayed & Moselhi, 2015), another expectation
is on the simulation model for predicting the changeable stakeholder
performance during project duration. Currently, the evaluation models
based on traditional statistical methods (i.e. AHP, SEM and factor analysis) have been employed to review the stakeholder perception after
project completion (Babatunde, Perera, Zhou & Udeaja, 2016; Mojtahedi
& Oo, 2017; Moslem, Ghorbanzadeh, Blaschke & Duleba, 2019). However, in the initial stage, according to the result in 4.4, few simulation
models have been established in the ﬁeld of SPCP to predict stakeholder
performance and its robustness to face uncertainties under changeable
environment in construction projects.

With the keywords co-occurrence network from 2015 to 2017 as basis, hotspots in the frontier of SPCP are explored (see Fig. 5). Generally,
the future development of SPCP corresponds to the features of modern
construction projects in search of eﬃcient solutions to face the challenges in sustainability, complexity and uncertainty. The continuous advancement of information technology like BIM can support stakeholder
studies in tackling the challenges by providing an accurate and instant
approach for detecting stakeholder concerns and achieving better stakeholder collaboration.
5.3.1. Stakeholder engagement in sustainable urban projects
Sustainability is the hottest research topic in current SPCP. Stakeholder analysis has been conducted on energy projects (Read et al.,
2017), sustainable infrastructure (Diaz, Adler & Patt, 2017) and green
buildings (Yang et al., 2016). As urbanisation is a global trend, sustainability has become a critical topic with regard to urban issues
(Tan, Xu & Zhang, 2016). Sustainable urbanisation calls for sustainable
construction management in urban infrastructure and building projects
(Gan et al., 2015). In SPCP, stakeholder perspective studies have been
introduced into urban redevelopment projects because stakeholders are
an essential part of sustainability management (Hörisch et al., 2014).
For instance, a stakeholder-expectation-based analysis has been conducted for better sustainability performance of urban renewal projects
(Zhuang et al., 2017). Network analysis has been carried out to detect
social risks from the stakeholder perspective in an urban redevelopment
project (Yu et al., 2017). However, current studies focus on the identiﬁcation of stakeholder concerns to facilitate the decision-making process.
More SPCP on stakeholder engagement in urban projects are expected,
as recommended by Gan et al. (2015), to achieve sustainability in construction project management. Sustainable urbanisation seeks the engagement of all stakeholders in a city (Enserink & Koppenjan, 2007), so
SPCP are expected to investigate stakeholder engagement by providing
eﬃcient engagement levels and methods in diﬀerent types of sustainable urban projects. This call is also echoed by Tan et al. (2016) in an
urbanisation review.

5.3.4. Advanced integrated tool for stakeholder information collection
In the history of the development of SPCP, one major obstacle is
the lack of useful solutions to collect accurate information from project
stakeholders. Without such solutions, implementing high-quality empirical studies to validate new theories and management strategies becomes diﬃcult (Mok et al., 2017c; Osei-Kyei & Chan, 2017). Given that
the number of stakeholders involved in modern construction projects
is growing, the integration of various stakeholder information is essential for stakeholder analysis in SPCP (Mok et al., 2017a) As an information communication and sharing platform among various stakeholders(He et al., 2017a), BIM provides a new prospect to collect stakeholder
information accurately and instantly. One potential application is the
combination with Internet of Things (IoT) technology (Li et al., 2017a).
In the prefabricated housing projects, the BIM model has been combined with RFID labels to share stakeholder information for improving
schedule performance (Li et al., 2016a). In the future, more advanced
integrated information tool is expected to support SPCP in dealing with

5.3.2. Generalisation of stakeholder studies in complex construction
projects
The popular research targets are SPCP on project complexities.
As Fig. 5 shows, megaprojects and PPP projects are complex as they
involve a great number of stakeholders (De Schepper et al., 2014;
Mok et al., 2015). The complicated working interfaces require a high
level of stakeholder collaboration to face various risks in the long term
(Davies, Macaulay, Debarro & Thurston, 2014). Hence, SPCP must tackle
the challenges of project complexity from the stakeholder perspective
(Mok et al., 2017a). As stated in 5.1, megaproject has been the rising research area in SPCP. Although much experience of stakeholder
322

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

Fig. 6. “Housing model” The SPCP knowledge map.

sustainability, complexity and uncertainty problems in construction
projects.

in SPCP, namely, stakeholder concepts, methods, identiﬁcation, assessment, management, inﬂuence and complexity. The knowledge domain
indicates four major research areas of stakeholder perspective studies
concerning the issues of society, sustainability, tool and project. The society issues include the stakeholder interactions in public participation,
stakeholder power on social responsibility and stakeholder concerns in
public works. The sustainability issues cover the stakeholder analysis
in sustainability assessment, stakeholder engagement in green energy
projects and stakeholder involvement in environmental protection. The
tool issues consist of the stakeholder assessment in the decision-making
process, stakeholder integration with building information modelling
and stakeholder conﬂicts in system integration. The project issues are
made up of the theory of stakeholder management and stakeholder evaluation of risk and schedule management. Standing on the knowledge
frontier, future SPCP are encouraged to focus on the challenges of construction project management in the aspects of sustainability, complexity and uncertainty. Further studies regarding stakeholder engagement
in the sustainable urban projects, generalised studies tackling the complexity in complex construction projects and the dynamic and simulation
methods addressing the interactions between stakeholders and project
uncertainties are awaited. Moreover, the rising demands on instant and
accurate approach to integrating stakeholder information call for indepth research on advanced integrated information tools, such as BIM
and its related IoT technology.
The contribution of this article lies in two aspects. Theoretically,
the proposed knowledge map SPCP presents the knowledge evolution,
domain and frontier of SPCP. The traced knowledge evolution highlights seven research milestones and relevant profound inﬂuence on
the knowledge body of SPCP in history. The detected knowledge domain clearly reveals four critical research areas for the latest knowledge scope, presenting how the applications of stakeholder perspective
studies extend to multi-disciplinary areas in construction projects. The
explored knowledge frontier indicates future directions for the knowledge development of SPCP by integrating the knowledge between stakeholder studies, construction project management and information technology. Therefore, the proposed knowledge map comprehensively depicts the past, current and future of SPCP. Methodologically, an eﬀective method to map discipline knowledge is provided with the integration of bibliometric approaches, including timespan citation, document
co-citation and keyword co-occurrence analyses. Unlike traditional literature reviews, the integrated bibliometric approach successfully explores the past, current and future of a target knowledge domain by

5.4. The knowledge map of SPCP
As Fig. 6 shows, the knowledge map of SPCP can be formed with
three components, namely, knowledge evolution, domain and frontier.
The holistic map is like a housing model. Knowledge evolution shows
the history of SPCP, which is the foundation of the housing map. Above
the foundation lies four major issues with eleven clusters of stakeholder
perspective studies that form the knowledge domain. They represent the
columns to support the whole house. At the top of the map is the roof,
illustrating the trend of knowledge frontier in three aspects, namely, sustainability, complexity and uncertainty, with the support of stakeholder
information collection tools.
The knowledge map contributes to SPCP from three aspects. Firstly,
it brings new insights into the development path of knowledge evolution
in SPCP by comprehensively highlighting seven milestones in history.
Each detected milestone has a profound inﬂuence on SPCP, which is
useful for scholars to learn the classical theories in the ﬁeld. Secondly,
it provides a new perception of current multi-disciplinary knowledge
domains of SPCP with four identiﬁed research areas and eleven associated stakeholder perspective studies. This contribution beneﬁts the
scholar to understand the existing research scopes of SPCP. Thirdly,
the knowledge-frontier roof indicates the new vision of SPCP by four
future directions synchronised with the characteristics of the construction project management (sustainability, complexity and uncertainty)
and the development of the construction information technology (BIM
and its related IoT technology). The proposed future research directions bridge knowledge domains between stakeholder studies, construction project management and information technology. In summary, the
knowledge map shows a holistic picture presenting the past, current and
future of SPCP.

6. Conclusions
This study refers to 752 stakeholder-related articles. The knowledge
evolution, domain, and frontier for SPCP are obtained systematically
through the analysis of bibliographic records. The knowledge evolution
reveals four critical development phases with seven research milestones
323

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

reducing the impact of a researcher’s subjective opinions on the research results, thus ensuring that the results are more objective and
accurate.
Two limitations of the research are noted. Firstly, although WoS
database provides the high-standard literature that formed the dataset,
other literature databases are welcome to be included in developing
the bibliometric tool. Currently, other databases cannot provide suﬃcient bibliographic records owing to software compatibility. Secondly,
the knowledge map for SPCP should be updated periodically with the
development of stakeholder management practices in the construction
industry.

Chen, C., Dubin, R., & Kim, M. C. (2014). Orphan drugs and rare diseases: A scientometric
review (2000–2014). Expert Opinion on Orphan Drugs, 2, 709–724.
Chen, C., Hu, Z., Liu, S., & Tseng, H. (2012). Emerging trends in regenerative medicine: A
scientometric analysis in CiteSpace. Expert Opinion on Biological Therapy, 12, 593–608.
Chen, C., Ibekwe‐Sanjuan, F., & Hou, J. (2010). The structure and dynamics of cocitation clusters: A multiple‐perspective cocitation analysis. Journal of the Association for
Information Science and Technology, 61, 1386–1409.
Chitkara, K. (1998). Construction project management. Tata McGraw-Hill Education.
Cleland, D. I. (1999). Project management: Strategic design and implementation. McGraw-Hill.
Cleland, D. I., & Kerzner, H. (1986). Engineering team management. Krieger Publishing Company.
Cobo, M. J., López‐Herrera, A. G., Herrera‐Viedma, E., & Herrera, F. (2011). Science mapping software tools: Review, analysis, and cooperative study among tools. Journal of
the Association for Information Science and Technology, 62, 1382–1402.
Dalal, J., Mohapatra, P. K., & Mitra, G. C. (2010). Prioritization of rural roads: AHP in
group decision. Engineering, Construction and Architectural Management.
Davies, A., Macaulay, S., Debarro, T., & Thurston, M. (2014). Making innovation happen
in a megaproject: London’s crossrail suburban railway system. Project Management
Journal, 45, 25–37.
Davies, A., & Mackenzie, I. (2014). Project complexity and systems integration: Constructing the London 2012 Olympics and Paralympics games. International Journal of Project
Management, 32, 773–790.
De Meyer, A., Loch, C. H., & Pich, M. T. (2002). Managing project uncertainty: From
variation to chaos; Project managers can’t predict the future, but accurately gauging
the degree of uncertainty inherent in their projects can help them quickly adapt to it.
MIT Sloan Management Review, 43, 60–68.
De Schepper, S., Dooms, M., & Haezendonck, E. (2014). Stakeholder dynamics and responsibilities in public-private partnerships: A mixed experience. International Journal of
Project Management, 32, 1210–1222.
Derakhshan, R., Turner, R., & Mancini, M. (2019). Project governance and stakeholders:
A literature review. International Journal of Project Management, 37, 98–116.
Devine‐Wright, P. (2005). Beyond NIMBYism: Towards an integrated framework for understanding public perceptions of wind energy. Wind Energy, 8, 125–139.
Di Maddaloni, F., & Davis, K. (2017). The inﬂuence of local community stakeholders in
megaprojects: Rethinking their inclusiveness to improve project performance. International Journal of Project Management, 35, 1537–1556.
Di Maddaloni, F., & Davis, K. (2018). Project manager’s perception of the local communities’ stakeholder in megaprojects. An empirical investigation in the UK. International
Journal of Project Management, 36, 542–565.
Diaz, P., Adler, C., & Patt, A. (2017). Do stakeholders’ perspectives on renewable energy
infrastructure pose a risk to energy policy implementation? A case of a hydropower
plant in Switzerland. Energy Policy, 108, 21–28.
Dunham, L., Freeman, R. E., & Liedtka, J. (2006). Enhancing stakeholder practice: A particularized exploration of community. Business Ethics Quarterly, 16, 23–42.
Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989). Building theories from case study research. Academy of Management Review, 14, 532–550.
El-Gohary, N. M., Osman, H., & El-Diraby, T. E. (2006). Stakeholder management for
public private partnerships. International Journal of Project Management, 24, 595–604.
ENR (2014). The Top 250. Engineering news-record.
Enserink, B., & Koppenjan, J. (2007). Public participation in China: Sustainable urbanization and governance. Management of Environmental Quality: An International Journal,
18, 459–474.
Eskerod, P., & Ang, K. (2017). Stakeholder value constructs in megaprojects: A long-term
assessment case study. Project Management Journal, 48, 60–75.
Flyvbjerg, B. (2006). Five misunderstandings about case-study research. Qualitative Inquiry, 12, 219–245.
Flyvbjerg, B. (2014). What you should know about megaprojects and why: An overview.
Project Management Journal, 45, 6–19.
Freeman, R. (1984). Edward: Strategic management. A stakeholder approach, New York.
Gan, X., Zuo, J., Ye, K., Skitmore, M., & Xiong, B. (2015). Why sustainable construction?
Why not? An owner’s perspective. Habitat International, 47, 61–68.
Goh, K. C., & Yang, J. (2014). Importance of sustainability-related cost components in
highway infrastructure: perspective of stakeholders in Australia. Journal of Infrastructure Systems, 20, 9.
Gold, S. (2011). Bio-energy supply chains and stakeholders. Mitigation and Adaptation
Strategies for Global Change, 16, 439–462.
Gray, T., Haggett, C., & Bell, D. (2005). Oﬀshore wind farms and commercial ﬁsheries in
the UK: A study in stakeholder consultation. Ethics Place and Environment, 8, 127–140.
Guide, A. (2001). Project management body of knowledge (PMBOK® GUIDE). Project Management Institute.
Hall, D. M., & Lazarus, E. D. (2015). Deep waters: Lessons from community meetings about
oﬀshore wind resource development in the US. Marine Policy, 57, 9–17.
Halpin, D. W. (2010). Construction management. John Wiley & Sons.
Hart, S. L., & Sharma, S. (2004). Engaging fringe stakeholders for competitive imagination.
Academy of Management Perspectives, 18, 7–18.
He, Q. H., Wang, G., Luo, L., Shi, Q., Xie, J. X., & Meng, X. H. (2017b). Mapping the managerial areas of building information modeling (BIM) using scientometric analysis.
International Journal of Project Management, 35, 670–685.
He, Q., Wang, G., Luo, L., Shi, Q., Xie, J., & Meng, X. (2017a). Mapping the managerial areas of building information modeling (BIM) using scientometric analysis. International
Journal of Project Management, 35, 670–685.
Henjewele, C., Fewings, P., & Rwelamila, P. D. (2013). De-marginalising the public in PPP
projects through multi-stakeholders management. Journal of Financial Management of
Property and Construction.

Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnancial
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to inﬂuence
the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgement
The research described in this paper is fully supported by the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 71671156).
The research is also funded by the Public Policy Research Funding
Scheme from the Policy Innovation and Co-ordination Oﬃce of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (Project Number: 2017.A6.107.18B).
Supplementary materials
Supplementary material associated with this article can be found, in
the online version, at doi:10.1016/j.ijproman.2020.07.007.
References
Aaltonen, K., Jaakko, K., & Tuomas, O. (2008). Stakeholder salience in global projects.
International Journal of Project Management, 26, 509–516.
Aaltonen, K., & Sivonen, R. (2009). Response strategies to stakeholder pressures in global
projects. International Journal of Project Management, 27, 131–141.
Abu, K. (2016). Visualizing the citation patterns of parasitology research in India: A study
using CiteNet explorer. International Journal of Innovative Knowledge Concepts, 2.
Alvial-Palavicino, C., garrido-echeverría, N., jiménez-estévez, G., Reyes, L., & Palma-Behnke, R. (2011). A methodology for community engagement in the introduction
of renewable based smart microgrid. Energy for Sustainable Development, 15, 314–323.
Alwaer, H., & Clements-Croome, D. (2010). Key performance indicators (KPIs) and priority setting in using the multi-attribute approach for assessing sustainable intelligent
buildings. Building and Environment, 45, 799–807.
Alzraiee, H., Zayed, T., & Moselhi, O. (2015). Dynamic planning of construction activities
using hybrid simulation. Automation in Construction, 49, 176–192.
Amadi, C., Carrillo, P., & Tuuli, M. (2018). Stakeholder management in PPP projects:
External stakeholders’ perspective. Built Environment Project and Asset Management, 8,
403–414.
Ananda, J., & Herath, G. (2003). The use of Analytic Hierarchy Process to incorporate
stakeholder preferences into regional forest planning. Forest Policy and Economics, 5,
13–26.
Arnstein, S. R. (1969). A ladder of citizen participation. Journal of the American Institute of
planners, 35, 216–224.
Atkin, B., & Skitmore, M. (2008). Stakeholder management in construction. Construction
Management and Economics, 26, 549–552.
Babatunde, S. O., Perera, S., Zhou, L., & Udeaja, C. (2016). Stakeholder perceptions on
critical success factors for public-private partnership projects in Nigeria. Built Environment Project and Asset Management, 6, 74–91.
Benn, S., Dunphy, D., & Martin, A. (2009). Governance of environmental risk: New approaches to managing stakeholder involvement. Journal of Environmental Management,
90, 1567–1575.
Bonke, S., & Winch, G. (2002). Project stakeholder mapping: Analyzing the interests of
project stakeholders. The Frontiers of Project Management Research Project Management
Institute, PMI.
Bourne, L., & Walker, D. H. (2005). Visualising and mapping stakeholder inﬂuence. Management Decision, 43, 649–660.
Boutilier, R. G., & Zdziarski, M. (2017). Managing stakeholder networks for a social license
to build. Construction Management and Economics, 35, 498–513.
Braeckman, J. P., & Guthrie, P. (2016). Loss of value: Eﬀects of delay on hydropower
stakeholders. Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers-Engineering Sustainability,
169, 253–264.
Château, P.-. A., Chang, Y.-. C., Chen, H., & Ko, T.-. T. (2012). Building a stakeholder’s
vision of an oﬀshore wind-farm project: A group modeling approach. Science of the
Total Environment, 420, 43–53.
324

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

Hörisch, J., Freeman, R. E., & Schaltegger, S. (2014). Applying stakeholder theory in sustainability management: Links, similarities, dissimilarities, and a conceptual framework. Organization & Environment, 27, 328–346.
Institute, P. M. (1987). Project management body of knowledge (PMBOK). Project Management Institute.
Jacobson, C., & Ok Choi, S. (2008). Success factors: Public works and public-private partnerships. International Journal of Public Sector Management, 21, 637–657.
Jami, A. A., & Walsh, P. R. (2014). The role of public participation in identifying stakeholder synergies in wind power project development: The case study of Ontario,
Canada. Renewable Energy, 68, 194–202.
Lam, K. C., Lam, M. C. K., & Wang, D. (2008). MBNQA‐oriented self‐assessment quality
management system for contractors: Fuzzy AHP approach. Construction Management
and Economics, 26, 447–461.
Larson, S., Measham, T. G., & Williams, L. J. (2010). Remotely engaged? Towards a framework for monitoring the success of stakeholder engagement in remote regions. Journal
of Environmental Planning and Management, 53, 827–845.
Lester, A. (2006). Project management, planning and control: Managing engineering, construction and manufacturing projects to PMI, APM and BSI standards. Elsevier.
Li, C. Z., Hong, J., Xue, F., Shen, G. Q., Xu, X., & Mok, M. K. (2016a). Schedule risks in
prefabrication housing production in Hong Kong: A social network analysis. Journal
of Cleaner Production, 134, 482–494.
Li, C. Z., Zhong, R. Y., Xue, F., Xu, G., Chen, K., & Huang, G. G. (2017a). Integrating
RFID and BIM technologies for mitigating risks and improving schedule performance
of prefabricated house construction. Journal of Cleaner Production, 165, 1048–1062.
Li, M., Wu, W., & Wu, G. (2017b). Promotion mechanism of the green building based on
the stakeholder theory from the perspective of game theory. Journal of Civil Engineering
and Management, 34, 20–26.
Li, T. H. Y., Ng, S. T. T., Skitmore, M., & Li, N. (2016b). Investigating stakeholder concerns
during public participation. Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers-Municipal
Engineer, 169, 199–219.
Li, T. H. Y., Ng, S. T., & Skitmore, M. (2013). Evaluating stakeholder satisfaction during public participation in major infrastructure and construction projects: A fuzzy
approach. Automation in Construction, 29, 123–135.
Li, T. H., Ng, S. T., & Skitmore, M. (2012a). Conﬂict or consensus: An investigation of
stakeholder concerns during the participation process of major infrastructure and construction projects in Hong Kong. Habitat International, 36, 333–342.
Li, T. H., Ng, S. T., & Skitmore, M. (2012b). Public participation in infrastructure and
construction projects in China: From an EIA-based to a whole-cycle process. Habitat
International, 36, 47–56.
Li, T. H., Thomas Ng, S., & Skitmore, M. (2015). Modeling multi-stakeholder multi-objective decisions during public participation in major infrastructure and construction
projects: A decision rule approach. Journal of Construction Engineering and Management,
142, Article 04015087.
Li, X., Wu, P., Shen, G. Q., Wang, X., & Teng, Y. (2017c). Mapping the knowledge domains of Building Information Modeling (BIM): A bibliometric approach. Automation
in Construction, 84, 195–206.
Liang, X., Shen, G., & Guo, L. (2015). Improving management of green retroﬁts from a
stakeholder perspective: A case study in China. International Journal of Environmental
Research and Public Health, 12, 13823–13842.
Lin, X., Ho, C. M. F., & Shen, G. Q. P. (2017). Who should take the responsibility? Stakeholders’ power over social responsibility issues in construction projects. Journal of
Cleaner Production, 154, 318–329.
Lin, X., Ho, C. M., & Shen, G. Q. (2018b). Research on corporate social responsibility in
the construction context: A critical review and future directions. International Journal
of Construction Management, 18, 394–404.
Lin, X., Ho, C. M.-F., & Shen, G. Q. (2018a). For the balance of stakeholders’ power and
responsibility. Management Decision.
Liu, B., Huo, T., Meng, J., Gong, J., Shen, Q., & Sun, T. (2015). Identiﬁcation of key
contractor characteristic factors that aﬀect project success under diﬀerent project delivery systems: Empirical analysis based on a group of data from China. Journal of
Management in Engineering, 32, Article 05015003.
Love, P. E., & Holt, G. D. (2000). Construction business performance measurement: The
SPM alternative. Business Process Management Journal.
Lu, W., Peng, Y., Webster, C., & Zuo, J. (2015). Stakeholders’ willingness to pay for enhanced construction waste management: A Hong Kong study. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 47, 233–240.
Luo, L., Qiping Shen, G., Xu, G., Liu, Y., & Wang, Y. (2019). Stakeholder-associated supply
chain risks and their interactions in a prefabricated building project in Hong Kong.
Journal of Management in Engineering, 35, Article 05018015.
Mahjabeen, Z., Shrestha, K. K., & Dee, J. A. (2003). Rethinking community participation
in urban planning: The role of disadvantaged groups in Sydney metropolitan strategy.
Australasian Journal of Regional Studies, 9, 45.
Martin, N., & Rice, J. (2015). Improving Australia’s renewable energy project policy and
planning: A multiple stakeholder analysis. Energy Policy, 84, 128–141.
Mcelroy, B., & Mills, C. (2000). Managing stakeholders. Gower handbook of project management, 757–775.
Mitchell, R. K., Agle, B. R., & Wood, D. J. (1997). Toward a theory of stakeholder identiﬁcation and salience: Deﬁning the principle of who and what really counts. Academy
of Management Review, 22, 853–886.
Mojtahedi, M., & Oo, B. L. (2017). The impact of stakeholder attributes on performance of
disaster recovery projects: The case of transport infrastructure. International Journal
of Project Management, 35, 841–852.
Mok, K. Y., Shen, G. Q., & Yang, J. (2015). Stakeholder management studies in mega
construction projects: A review and future directions. International Journal of Project
Management, 33, 446–457.

Mok, K. Y., Shen, G. Q., & Yang, R. J. (2017a). Addressing stakeholder complexity and
major pitfalls in large cultural building projects. International Journal of Project Management, 35, 463–478.
Mok, K. Y., Shen, G. Q., & Yang, R. J. (2017b). A network theory-based analysis of stakeholder issues and their interrelationships in large construction projects: A case study.
International Journal of Construction Management, 17, 210–227.
Mok, K. Y., Shen, G. Q., Yang, R. J., & Li, C. Z. (2017c). Investigating key challenges
in major public engineering projects by a network-theory based analysis of stakeholder concerns: A case study. International Journal of Project Management, 35, 78–
94.
Morris, P.W., & Hough, G.H. (1987). The anatomy of major projects: A study of the reality
of project management.
Moslem, S., Ghorbanzadeh, O., Blaschke, T., & Duleba, S. (2019). Analysing Stakeholder
consensus for a sustainable transport development decision by the fuzzy AHP and
interval AHP. Sustainability, 11, 3271.
Mostafa, M. A., & El-Gohary, N. M. (2014). Stakeholder-sensitive social welfare–oriented
beneﬁt analysis for sustainable infrastructure project development. Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 140, Article 04014038.
Ng, S. T., Wong, J. M., & Wong, K. K. (2013). A public private people partnerships (P4)
process framework for infrastructure development in Hong Kong. Cities (London, England), 31, 370–381.
Nguyen, N. H., Skitmore, M., & Wong, J. K. W. (2009). Stakeholder impact analysis of
infrastructure project management in developing countries: A study of perception of
project managers in state‐owned engineering ﬁrms in Vietnam. Construction Management and Economics, 27, 1129–1140.
Odziemkowska, K., & Henisz, W. J. (2016). In Webs of inﬂuence: National stakeholder networks and corporate social performance. Academy of management proceedings: 10510
(p. 13867). Manor, NY: Academy of Management Briarcliﬀ.
Ogunlana, S. O. (2010). Beyond the ‘iron triangle’: Stakeholder perception of key performance indicators (KPIs) for large-scale public sector development projects. International Journal of Project Management, 28, 228–236.
Olander, S. (2007). Stakeholder impact analysis in construction project management. Construction Management and Economics, 25, 277–287.
Olander, S., & Landin, A. (2005). Evaluation of stakeholder inﬂuence in the implementation of construction projects. International Journal of Project Management, 23, 321–328.
Olander, S., & Landin, A. (2008). A comparative study of factors aﬀecting the external stakeholder management process. Construction Management and Economics, 26,
553–561.
Oosterlaken, I. (2015). Applying value sensitive design (VSD) to wind turbines and wind
parks: An exploration. Science and Engineering Ethics, 21, 359–379.
Oppong, G. D., Chan, A. P. C., & Dansoh, A. (2017). A review of stakeholder management performance attributes in construction projects. International Journal of Project
Management, 35, 1037–1051.
Osei-Kyei, R., & Chan, A. P. C. (2017). Perceptions of stakeholders on the critical success
factors for operational management of public-private partnership projects. Facilities,
35, 21–38.
Park, H., Kim, K., Kim, Y. W., & Kim, H. (2017). Stakeholder management in long-term
complex megaconstruction projects: The Saemangeum project. Journal of Management
in Engineering, 33, 11.
Qian, Q. K., Chan, E. H., & Khalid, A. G. (2015). Challenges in delivering green building
projects: Unearthing the transaction costs (TCs). Sustainability, 7, 3615–3636.
Read, L., Madani, K., Mokhtari, S., & Hanks, C. (2017). Stakeholder-driven multi-attribute
analysis for energy project selection under uncertainty. Energy, 119, 744–753.
Rodriguez‐Melo, A., & Mansouri, S. A. (2011). Stakeholder engagement: Deﬁning strategic advantage for sustainable construction. Business Strategy and the Environment, 20,
539–552.
Rowley, T. J. (1997). Moving beyond dyadic ties: A network theory of stakeholder inﬂuences. Academy of Management Review, 22, 887–910.
Saaty, T. L. (1980). The analytical hierarchical process. New York: J Wiley.
Saez, P. V., del río merino, M., GONZÁLEZ, A. S.-A., & Porras-Amores, C. (2013). Best
practice measures assessment for construction and demolition waste management in
building constructions. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 75, 52–62.
Sanvido, V., Grobler, F., Parﬁtt, K., Guvenis, M., & Coyle, M. (1992). Critical success factors
for construction projects. Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 118,
94–111.
Scholes, K., Johnson, G., & Whittington, R. (2002). Exploring corporate strategy. Financial
Times Prentice Hall.
Shen, G., Brandon, P., & Baldwin, A. (2009). Collaborative construction information management. Routledge.
Su, H.-. N., & Lee, P.-. C. (2010). Mapping knowledge structure by keyword co-occurrence:
A ﬁrst look at journal papers in technology foresight. Scientometrics, 85, 65–79.
Tan, Y., Xu, H., & Zhang, X. (2016). Sustainable urbanization in China: A comprehensive
literature review. Cities (London, England), 55, 82–93.
Valentin, V., Naderpajouh, N., & Abraham, D. M. (2018). Integrating the Input of Stakeholders in Infrastructure Risk Assessment. Journal of Management in Engineering, 34.
Van Eck, N. J., & Waltman, L. (2014). CitNetExplorer: A new software tool for analyzing
and visualizing citation networks. Journal of Informetrics, 8, 802–823.
Veidemane, K., & Nikodemus, O. (2015). Coherence between marine and land use planning: Public attitudes to landscapes in the context of siting a wind park along the
Latvian coast of the Baltic Sea. Journal of Environmental Planning and Management, 58,
949–975.
Wakchaure, S. S., & Jha, K. N. (2012). Determination of bridge health index using analytical hierarchy process. Construction Management and Economics, 30, 133–149.
Wasserman, S., & Faust, K. (1994). Social network analysis: Methods and applications. Cambridge University Press.

325

J. Xue, G.Q. Shen and R.J. Yang et al.

International Journal of Project Management 38 (2020) 313–326

Williams, N. L., Ferdinand, N., & Pasian, B. (2015). Online stakeholder interactions in the
early stage of a megaproject. Project Management Journal, 46, 92–110.
Wong, S. C., & Abe, N. (2014). Stakeholders’ perspectives of a building environmental
assessment method: The case of CASBEE. Building and Environment, 82, 502–516.
Wüstenhagen, R., Wolsink, M., & BÜRER, M. J. (2007). Social acceptance of renewable
energy innovation: An introduction to the concept. Energy Policy, 35, 2683–2691.
Xie, L.-. L., Yang, Y., Hu, Y., & Chan, A. P. (2014). Understanding project stakeholders’
perceptions of public participation in China’s infrastructure and construction projects.
Engineering, Construction and Architectural Management.
Yang, J., Shen, G. Q., Drew, D. S., & Ho, M. (2009a). Critical success factors for stakeholder management: Construction practitioners’ perspectives. Journal of Construction
Engineering and Management, 136, 778–786.
Yang, J., Shen, G. Q., Ho, M., Drew, D. S., & Xue, X. (2011). Stakeholder management in
construction: An empirical study to address research gaps in previous studies. International Journal of Project Management, 29, 900–910.
Yang, J., Shen, Q., & Ho, M. (2009b). An overview of previous studies in stakeholder
management and its implications for the construction industry. Journal of Facilities
Management, 7, 159–175.
Yang, R. J., Jayasuriya, S., Gunarathna, C., Arashpour, M., Xue, X., & Zhang, G. (2018).
The evolution of stakeholder management practices in Australian mega construction
projects. Engineering, Construction and Architectural Management.
Yang, R. J., & Shen, G. Q. (2014). Framework for stakeholder management in construction
projects. Journal of Management in Engineering, 31, Article 04014064.
Yang, R. J., Wang, Y., & Jin, X. H. (2014). Stakeholders’ attributes, behaviors, and decision‐making strategies in construction projects: importance and correlations in practice. Project Management Journal, 45, 74–90.

Yang, R. J., Zou, P. X. W., & Wang, J. Y. (2016). Modelling stakeholder-associated risk
networks in green building projects. International Journal of Project Management, 34,
66–81.
Yin, R. K. (2003). Case study research design and methods third edition. Applied Social
Research Methods Series, 5.
Yu, T., Shen, G. Q. P., Shi, Q., Lai, X. D., Li, C. Z. D., & Xu, K. X. (2017). Managing
social risks at the housing demolition stage of urban redevelopment projects: A stakeholder-oriented study using social network analysis. International Journal of Project
Management, 35, 925–941.
Yuan, H. (2013). Critical management measures contributing to construction waste management: Evidence from construction projects in China. Project Management Journal,
44, 101–112.
Zhang, X. (2015). Green real estate development in China: State of art and prospect
agenda—A review. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 47, 1–13.
Zhao, D., Mccoy, A. P., Kleiner, B. M., Mills, T. H., & Lingard, H. (2016). Stakeholder
perceptions of risk in construction. Safety Science, 82, 111–119.
Zheng, X., Le, Y., Chan, A. P., Hu, Y., & Li, Y. (2016). Review of the application of social
network analysis (SNA) in construction project management research. International
Journal of Project Management, 34, 1214–1225.
Zhou, Y., Hou, L., Yang, Y., Chong, H.-. Y., & Moon, S. (2019). A comparative review
and framework development on public participation for decision-making in Chinese
public projects. Environmental Impact Assessment Review, 75, 79–87.
Zhuang, T. Z., Qian, Q. K., Visscher, H. J., & Elsinga, M. G. (2017). Stakeholders’ expectations in urban renewal projects in China: A key step towards sustainability. Sustainability, 9, 21.

326

