2023 European Conference on Computing in Construction
40th International CIB W78 Conference
Heraklion, Crete, Greece
July 10-12, 2023

INVIGORATING AEC EDUCATION USING MINECRAFT: A CASE OF LIDAR
SURVEYING AND VIRTUAL LEARNING
Fan Xue1, Zhe Chen1, Jiajia Wang1 and Isabelle Y.S. Chan1
1
The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China

This is the pre-print version of the conference paper:
Xue, F., Chen, Z., Wang, J., & Chan, I. Y. (2023). Invigorating AEC education using
Minecraft: A case of LiDAR surveying and virtual learning. Proceedings of the 2023
European Conference on Computing in Construction and the 40th International CIB W78
Conference, 238, Heraklion, Crete, Greece. https://doi.org/10.35490/EC3.2023.238
The final version is also: https://ec-3.org/publications/conference/paper/?id=EC32023_238 .The
use of this document must follow the CC-BY NC 4.0 license.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Abstract
The AEC industry is undergoing a digital transformation, which is leading to partially blended
learning modes in collaborative and interactive learning environments. However, online meeting
software has been found to have limited capacity when it comes to teaching and learning complex
geometries and systems in AEC courses. To address this issue, this study conducted a collective case
study on the use of Minecraft’s game engine to enhance the teaching and learning (T&L) of
university-level AEC courses, including 3D-LiDAR surveying, as-built 3D modeling, analytics and
simulation, and underground structures. The study results suggest that a programmable and
interactive world, though having some limitations, can still benefit students’ learning. The analysis
shows that gamified environments like Minecraft are particularly encouraged for the T&L of
emerging digitalization technologies. To further improve future research, we recommend that
computational quantity and material analytics be included, along with an open library for exchanging
neutralized T&L materials.
Introduction
The rapid advancement of information and communication technologies (ICTs) has provoked a
digital transformation in the architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) practices and
operations (Jacobsson et al., 2017; Xue et al., 2020). New digitalization tools and technologies, such
as Building and City Information Modeling (BIM/CIM) and Geographic Information Systems (GIS),
naturally embrace the prosperity and development in the AEC industry (Singh, 2014). As AEC
companies increasingly adopt digitization, they require a new labor force capable of collaborating
and communicating with ICTs (An et al., 2021). Due to the increasing demands of semantically-rich
models and smart construction, Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) has become a significant trend
in 3D surveying, serving as an important means of capturing 3D geometric information with
millimeter accuracy (Xue et al., 2020). Meanwhile, higher education has encouraged AEC students
to acquire skills and knowledge of emerging technology to meet the new competence expectations
from industry partners (Haldorai et al., 2021). Therefore, today’s AEC education is facing more
opportunities, where not only traditional face-to-face or lecture-style teaching works, but blended
learning modes also play a significant role in collaborative and interactive learning environments.
Online teaching and learning (T&L) has no ‘one-size-fits-all’ formulae (Sweet et al., 2022). AEC
courses are no exception. The way we emotionally and cognitively experience our built environment
is on the cusp of a technical revolution as well as a change in how humans experience physical space

35

40

(Wang et al., 2020). The increasing mixing of virtual and physical environments, both physically and
perceptually, is one of the specific effects on pedagogy (del Carmen Ramírez-Rueda et al., 2021).
This has implications for how we study and teach architecture and construction, in particular, a subject
that is closely tied to how we see, interpret, and learn about spaces and buildings (Olowa et al., 2022).
Although online meeting software, such as Zoom, has made it easier to establish communication
networks, online courses must be carefully designed with consideration of how students and educators
perceive the purpose and value of interactions (Mielikäinen, 2022; Haldorai et al., 2021). The passive
one-way mode of knowledge dissemination is limited in mobilizing all students, particularly in AEC
courses involving complex geometries and systems. Thus, 3D or interactive T&L content is
demanded to improve virtual T&L for AEC courses.

Figure 1: University virtual events hosted in 3D block campuses (UC Berkeley, 2020; Meisenzahl, 2020)

45

50

55

60

Minecraft is a multiplayer cross-platform sandbox video game that often replicates a virtual world
from the real world (Microsoft, 2022). With over 140 million monthly active players (ActivePlayer,
2022), Minecraft is one of the world’s most popular games. In Minecraft, a player has a first-person
avatar in a voxel-based environment consisting of cubic blocks (Microsoft, 2022). Players can cocreate fanciful structures from a variety of materials, interact with other players, and accept quests.
Minecraft satisfies an important principle of effective learning (Callaghan, 2016) while having a
connection to reality (see Figure 1). Due to the heavy planning and assembly of 3D shapes, which
recruits greater levels of spatial skills, Minecraft could also serve as a valuable tool for supporting
and developing spatial reasoning skills (Baek et al., 2020). Minecraft Education Edition (MCEE) is
a specialized version for educational settings (Kuhn, 2018). In comparison, MCEE focuses on
educational purposes such as code training, flood simulation, and 3D view shedding (Hébert &
Jenson, 2020).
For T&L of emerging AEC technologies, Minecraft can also serve as a technique-aided solution for
intuitive learning from the learner’s perspective (Andersen & Rustad, 2022). AEC education is
changing, with its focus shifting from the traditional theory-based curriculum to technology-mediated
learning, such as architectural BIM designing (Chegu et al., 2016), 3D GIS surveying (del Carmen
Ramírez-Rueda et al., 2021), and LiDAR sensing (Wu et al., 2021). In such learning, the initial and
fundamental step is to understand and master the professional tools, such as Revit for building
modeling (Xue & Lu, 2020a), ArcGIS for urban analytics (Li et al., 2023), and CloudCompare for
point cloud editing (Wu et al., 2021). However, processing massive data is never easy for a qualified

65

70

expert, which can leave students with an obscure understanding of knowledge. Moreover, the
advanced computer environment is indispensable for running such professional AEC software, and
the little engagement of students may lead to less attraction. As a result, adopting Minecraft, mixed
reality, and mobile visualization methods in AEC education is reported to improve students’ spatial
perceptions, redefine construction information delivery, and enhance T&L activities for AEC
education (Raes et al., 2020; Baek et al., 2020).
For better understanding of how AEC students use Minecraft as an educational tool when working in
groups to learn a subject-specific skill, the research objectives of this study are:
(i)
(ii)
(iii)

75

80

85

90

To enrich students’ learning experiences in complex and non-intuitive technologies.
To help educators on 3D interactive T&L contents, and
To promote learners’ collaboration and multidisciplinary teamwork.

By achieving the research objectives and analyzing research outcomes, we expect to have insights for
enabling MCEE for AEC courses, such as general tips for using MCEE as an educational tool for
AEC-specific T&L and implications for the responses of AEC education to the post-pandemic era.
The primary contribution of this study is the utilization of Minecraft with Python coding for T&L of
complex 3D objects and systems in AEC education. The findings provide insights and additional
knowledge regarding 3D LiDAR surveying and as-built modeling. For AEC educators, the presented
approach helps realize spatial visualization and interaction, proactive co-creation, and vibrant
gamification as part of a learning design.
Methodology
This study utilizes a mixed-method approach to enhance the pedagogical approach to AEC education.
Figure 2 displays the conceptual research design of this study. First, a T&L case is selected, and the
participants are identified. Next, two emerging technologies, 3D LiDAR surveying and virtual
learning, are designed using Minecraft Education Edition (MCEE Ver. 1.14.70) to meet the T&L
objectives of the target case. Based on the participants' feedback, this study presents the Minecraftassisted T&L designs and analysis for additional AEC education scenarios and the post-pandemic
era.

Figure 2: Conceptual research design of this study

Case selection
95

100

The case study course, RECO7613: Information Technology in Design and Construction, was offered
by the Department of Real Estate and Construction at The University of Hong Kong (HKU). The
course aims to teach students novel information technology (IT) approaches in design, construction,
and operational contexts. It incorporates hands-on practices and case studies to demonstrate and
analyze IT approaches for current construction processes and long-term innovation purposes.
RECO7613 is a core course for the Master of Science in Integrated Project Delivery and is also
available as an optional credit-bearing course for students from other departments. The collective
case study investigated the use of Minecraft Education Edition in teaching and learning activities
focused on LiDAR surveying and virtual learning for RECO7613.
Participants

105

110

A total of 20 taught-postgraduate students from the university participated in this research study. Most
students had a background in AEC, while the rest had non-AEC majors such as Accounting and
Human Resource Management. Similarly, most students had experience working in the local AEC
industry. Students were initially grouped with a prioritized diversity of backgrounds. This case course
also utilized a modular teaching approach. Participants were exposed to the presented study through
theoretical learning content, group-based classroom tutorials, after-class group discussions, and a
written assignment with general and open-ended questions. Finally, participant feedback was
collected from the assignments for summary and analysis. It should be noted that all students and
teachers at HKU have free licenses for MCEE for educational purposes.
T&L designs
3D LiDAR surveying

115

120

125

The new T&L designs for the case course included LiDAR surveying and Minecraft-based virtual
learning. For LiDAR surveying, the first step involved 3D scanning. In the selected case, the target
scan area was the Sun Yat-Sen (SYS) Steps at the Main Campus of HKU, as highlighted in Figure
3(a). The Paracosm PX-80, a handheld mobile LiDAR device, was utilized. The device can capture
360° LiDAR data at an accuracy of ±2-3 cm, with 300,000 points per second, and at ranges up to 80
m. The device includes a scanning app on an iPad mini that mounts on the handle for easy control
and visual feedback on progress. A detailed hands-on guide for using the PX-80 was distributed to
students, as shown in Figure 3(b).

Figure 3: 3D LiDAR surveying for Minecraft. (a) the surveying area; (b) scanning instructions; (c) 3D measurement using LiDAR
points

130

The next step involves editing and measuring the 3D point cloud using professional software called
CloudCompare (Ver. 1.12). Students can preview the 3D scan of SYS Steps in CloudCompare, as
shown in Figure 3(c). A cutting/slicing panel is used for parametric adjustment, 3D arrows for
interactive adjustment, and temporary trim saving. In addition, 3D measuring tools, including points,
segments, angles, and areas, were utilized in the experimental case.
Virtual learning: As-built 3D modeling

135

140

145

150

Three scenarios were created to cover different T&L topics: as-built 3D modeling, virtual campus cocreation, and understanding underground structures. In the first scenario, students were instructed to
plan a gamified surveying project called "Anyone-Can-Build" for laypersons. As-built 3D modeling
can be a slow and tedious task (Xue et al., 2019), so the T&L goal was to ensure that students
understood how to utilize the surveyed LiDAR data in a group-based coursework. Specifically, there
were three tasks to complete:
 Task 1: To reconstruct a 1:1 as-built model of the surveyed SYS Steps;
 Task 2: To test selfie function on the Minecraft SYS Steps; and
 Task 3: To try design, decoration, and renovation for SYS Steps in Minecraft.
In Task 1, a new "Flat" world is created in "Creative" mode in MCEE. The dimensions of the target
areas are then identified, as shown in Figure 4(a). To replicate the three flight paths, students can
open Microsoft MakeCode in Minecraft and copy the reference Python code into it, as shown in
Figure 4(b). Students are encouraged to change the parameters according to the comments and click
the big green "run" button to load the Python scripts. By doing so, they can pave the ground and
construct approximate SYS Steps with Python codes, as shown in Figure 4(c,d). Students can also
use parametric codes in Python to reconstruct SYS Steps, as the steps have repetitive geometries.

Figure 4: Building a 1:1 Minecraft model of SYS Steps. (a) Dimensions in LiDAR point cloud; (b) Python code; (c) 20m×20m
ground to place; (d) automatic 1:1 model

Virtual learning: Virtual campus

Figure 5: Results of LiDAR scanning and Minecraft (1 block = 1m × 1m × 1m)

155

160

The second scenario involves experiential learning in the context of a virtual campus. According to
Klimová et al. (2021), learning results from synergistic transactions between the learner and the
environment. In this scenario, the first stage targets the virtual Main Campus at HKU, including Loke
Yew Hall, two library buildings, and SYS Plaza. Students can access this part of the campus model
to create their simulations. For example, they can design their floor structures, plant placements,
equipment styles, and outdoor scenes to meet their diverse building needs. Furthermore, the virtual
campus, distributed to each group of students, is open for simulations such as retrofitting, floods, and
fires, which evolve as the real world in Minecraft. The models include a variety of details from real
buildings, with finely honed tile textures and realistic scenes reproduced one-to-one. This will allow
students to use their rich imagination and excellent creativity to build a unique campus based on the
real scene. At the same time, this also allows students to create different experiences.
Virtual learning: Underground structures

165

170

175

This scenario involves T&L about underground building structures. Underground building structures
refer to the excavation of underground space that can provide some use while preserving the upper
strata. For high-density vertical cities like Hong Kong, underground space is increasingly developed
for transportation, business, entertainment, public space, and urban resilience (Chan et al., 2021).
Compared to above-ground structures, underground structures have a complex environment
characterized by complicated interactions with the surrounding strata. The scenario was designed to
enable students to understand the basic principles of underground buildings in the context of T&L
about underground structures.
Traditionally, teaching tools for the course of underground structures have mainly been based on
textbooks and supplemented by slides, as it is theory-oriented. This scenario includes a simplified
railway system beneath the virtual campus ground. It is designed to help students visually understand
how railways work and the basis of route planning in a more reasonable way. The interactive railway
model also offers new solutions, such as mock-driving in a powered minecart, for T&L about
underground structures.

Results and analyses
Results
180

185

190

3D LiDAR surveying

LiDAR scans were collected and reported in students' individual assessments. According to the
markings on the assessment reports, all LiDAR scans were successful, and 3D measurements were
successful in 90% of students. In the Comments section, approximately 80% of students recognized
the functionality of LiDAR-assisted instruction and believed that the accuracy of the mobile LiDAR
scanner PX-80 could meet the needs of many engineering practices. The remaining 20% of students,
however, questioned the use of LiDAR due to its inconvenient portability, expensive device cost, and
unsatisfactory graphical scan monitoring functions.
Based on the group tutorial activities of LiDAR post-processing and as-built 3D modeling, there was
a range of observations and attitudes towards the 3D surveying results regarding accuracy and
satisfaction. Examples of students’ observations and comments are as follows:



195




“The performance is excellent in the result of PX-80 3D surveying. It is not only the staircase that we can scan
but also surrounding building is inclusive to the area.” (Student A)
“It assists to record down the geography in a much shortened duration. The 360-degree camera allows near full
coverage when we are scanning.” (Student B)
“It is noted that skilled technical staff are required in the scanning.” (Student C)
“Some portions of the SYS steps either missing, overlapped or inaccurate, which also weakens the reliability in
actual projects.” (Student D)

Virtual learning: As-built 3D modeling
200

205

Figure 5 shows an example of the reconstruction learning of the SYS steps. All students were involved
in this module. Some students reported their learning experiences in their individual assessment
reports. The comprehensive nature of the built environment can be observed more intuitively by
comparing it with the results of the LiDAR scanning reconstruction. According to the reports, all
students believed a Minecraft model is adequate for the gamified “anyone-can-build” project. Some
comments are as follows.



210

“Minecraft provides a platform and aims [for] the player to build their virtual building or landscaping. It provides
many standard building materials, e.g., tiles, wooden panel, and stones. for the player to build their own designed
place.” (Student E)
“I think Minecraft is adequate for the gamified “anyone-can-build” project is this game is supported multiplayer
function. I think “Anyone” [does] not just mean anybody can play, it also means anybody can join others game
environment can play together. I think play together can provide more opportunities for discussion.” (Student F)

Virtual learning: Virtual campus

215

220

Figure 6 shows students who grew up in the information era showed strong interest and creativity in
participating in a virtual 1:1 campus, including Loke Yew Hall, two library buildings, Knowles
building, and SYS Plaza. Classroom observations and students' reports indicated that Minecraft can
help students learn building design concepts, familiarize themselves with structures, and to some
extent, reconstruct and optimize through analysis and simulation. For instance, one group of students
set fire to the bushes and trees around SYS Steps and SYS Plaza, which are the fire meeting points
of their classroom. They wished to simulate what the next-tier meeting points would be. Through
vivid engagement, students reported the potential for AEC education through immersive experiences.



“There are even more benefits compared with traditional education, such as digital liberty, social skills and online
safety.” (Student B)
“Teachers can set design briefs and budgets and participants can be selected to work in teams to achieve a
particular outcome, much like real life.” (Student F)

Figure 6: Virtual 1:1 Main Campus of HKU in Minecraft

225

Virtual learning: Underground structures

230

235

240

In this virtual learning scenario, the immersive interactive environment in Minecraft was useful in
understanding underground spaces and facilities. Many students commute below Loke Yew Hall at
HKU every day, but a 2D map in Figure 7(a) is not informative enough to visualize the vertical city.
Based on the virtual campus model in Minecraft, a virtual subway model was built, as shown in Figure
7(b), according to the 2D map. Note that the depth of the tunnels was simplified, and some blocks
were made transparent for visibility. Students could have new experiences by sitting in a row of
powered carts with open views, as shown in Figure 7(c). These experiences differed from daily
experiences in crowded and confined metro trains.

Figure 7: West Island Line under Loke Yew Hall. (a) 2D map (red box = Loke Yew Hall); (b) Simplified model in the virtual campus;
(c) a new experience of test-driving

The Minecraft model in the case study introduced examples of teaching and learning of underground
engineering courses, for virtual learning and classroom group activities. The Minecraft model
encouraged students to ask questions, create communicative experiences, and inspire teaching and
learning. Although most students unanimously accepted the immersive experience in Minecraft:


245



“[Minecraft] creates a virtual world for users to explore their own learning experience, and it also allows users
to create blocking model with pre-stetted materials like brick-and-mortar blocks. Players can easily begin with
simple building structure using digital block construction.” (Student H)
“ [Minecraft model] is a good and interesting platform to open someone mind and learn the concept of 3D model
with information management for a beginner. It is also good to educate and train up [the] new generation to
adopt innovative technology.” (Student I)

250

Last but not least, it is not observed that any student was involved in any incidences of abuse of
Minecraft or foul actions, cyberbullying, or malicious plagiarizing, which were deemed as potential
threats in a previous study (Klimová et al., 2021).
Analysis

255

260

265

270

275

280

285

290

For AEC education, the depiction of the built environment in Minecraft was successfully integrated
into T&L scenarios. While playing Minecraft, students can experiment with and simulate a range of
environmental conditions, such as simulated fires at the fire meeting points. The outcomes of this
study are consistent with the findings of García-Fernandez & Mateus (2019). This phenomenon
indicates that Minecraft fits appropriately with the effective utilization of visualization tools and
hands-on experiential learning in education. Students can take an active role in their learning by
playing, exploring, and expanding their understanding in a gaming environment, rather than simply
reading or listening to lectures about subject content.
In this study, students were observed to be consistently excited about learning with Minecraft, from
the start of the course to its conclusion. No students experienced operational problems in loading
Minecraft or accessing their MCEE accounts. With the exploration of possible applications of
Minecraft, AEC education is invigorated at different levels. On the technological side, Minecraft was
adopted to assist in understanding as-built models of digital twinning. It not only provides an
immersive virtual environment but also offers inspiration for a deeper understanding of emerging
technology applications. On the teaching practice side, the visualization of architectural design, the
digitization of engineering construction, and the interactivity of the built environment offer new
inspirations and viable methods for AEC education.
In terms of technology, Minecraft is a popular game with interactive and programmable sandbox
simulation functions. Our findings showed Minecraft can serve as an agent in or beyond the classroom
for reconceptualization in AEC education. Virtual teaching environments are important for activating
AEC education, especially in simulated real-world settings. Undeniably, most technology-mediated
learning requires sufficient data to support satisfactorily smooth operations. Although specialized
technology can lead to accurate models, it can also cause learning difficulties for students. The
integration of Minecraft with AEC education allows students to have a more thorough understanding
of their projects. Students can navigate and observe scenes that simulate real buildings in a virtual
game space, increasing student interest and engagement. Adopting Minecraft is a promising way to
help reduce the separation of roles played by different professionals in the traditional construction
process and reduce barriers associated with the rapid growth of professional industry practice.
Conclusions
The emerging technologies and constant industry upgrades have brought many opportunities and
challenges to AEC education. For example, current AEC T&L faces three challenges in the new postpandemic era: non-intuitiveness, high skill requirements, and poor interactivity and collaboration.
Therefore, this study explores novel teaching and learning of 3D LiDAR surveying and virtual
learning using Minecraft to enrich the pedagogics for AEC education. The results of our collective
case studies showed that the interactive gamified environment, such as Minecraft, has potentially
positive effects on AEC education by (i) enriching students’ learning experiences in an interactive
world, (ii) helping educators with 3D interactive teaching, and learning content, and (iii) promoting
collaborative creation and multidisciplinary teamwork. Limitations and issues were found in
affordability, model quality, and copyrights, which are more difficult to clearly define the
contribution share of the model creation process. Future directions include computational quantity
and material analytics in Minecraft for AEC education and an open library for sharing and exchanging
teaching and learning materials that are neutralized by removing copyrighted parts and sensitive
information.

295

Acknowledgments
The work presented in this paper was supported by The University of Hong Kong (A/C No.
101002041) and in part by Hong Kong Research Grants Council (Grant No. 27200520).
References
ActivePlayer. (2022, Aug. 15). Live Player Count of Minecraft. Retrieved from https://activeplayer.io/minecraft/

300

An, Y., Li, H., Su, T. & Wang, Y. (2021). Determining uncertainties in AI applications in aec sector and their
corresponding mitigation strategies. Automation in Construction, 131: 103883.
Andersen, R. & Rustad, M. (2022). Using Minecraft as an educational tool for supporting collaboration as a 21st century
skill. Computers and Education Open, 3: 100094.

305

Baek, Y., Min, E. & Yun, S. (2020). Mining educational implications of Minecraft. Computers in the Schools, 37(1): 116.
Callaghan, N. (2016). Investigating the role of Minecraft in educational learning environments. Educational Media
International, 53(4): 244-260.

310

Chan, I., Soh, C. K. & Chen, H. (2021). Enhancing underground development users’ health through facilities
management: a study of the underground metro system in Hong Kong. IOP Conference Series: Earth and
Environmental Science, 703(1): 012043.
Chegu, B. A., Chang, Y. T. & Hsieh, S. H. (2016). A review of tertiary BIM education for advanced engineering
communication with visualization. Visualization in Engineering, 4(1): 1-17.

315

del Carmen Ramírez-Rueda, M., Cózar-Gutiérrez, R., Colmenero, M. J. & González-Calero, J. A. (2021). Towards a
coordinated vision of ICT in education: A comparative analysis of Preschool and Primary Education teachers’ and
parents’ perceptions. Teaching and Teacher Education, 100: 103300.
García-Fernandez, J. & Mateus, L. (2019). Solution supporting the communication of the built heritage: Semi-automatic
production path to transfer semantic LIDAR data to Minecraft environment. Digital Applications in Archaeology and
Cultural Heritage, 14: e00112.

320

Haldorai, A., Murugan, S. & Ramu, A. (2021). Evolution, challenges, and application of intelligent ICT education: An
overview. Computer Applications in Engineering Education, 29(3): 562-571.
Hébert, C. & Jenson, J. (2020). Teaching with sandbox games: Minecraft, game-based learning, and 21st Century
competencies. Canadian Journal of Learning and Technology, 46(3): 27990.
Jacobsson, M., Linderoth, H. C. & Rowlinson, S. (2017). The role of industry: an analytical framework to understand
ICT transformation within the AEC industry. Construction Management and Economics, 35(10): 611-626.

325

Klimová, N., Šajben, J. & Lovászová, G. (2021). Online game-based learning through minecraft: Education edition
programming contest. IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference (EDUCON), pages 1660-1668. IEEE.
Kuhn, J. (2018). Minecraft: Education Edition. CALICO Journal, 35(2): 214-223.

330

Lacka, E., Wong, T. C. & Haddoud, M. Y. (2021). Can digital technologies improve students' efficiency? Exploring the
role of Virtual Learning Environment and Social Media use in Higher Education. Computers & Education, 163:
104099.
Li, M., Xue, F., & Yeh, A. G. (2023). Bi-objective analytics of 3D visual-physical nature exposures in high-rise highdensity cities for landscape and urban planning. Landscape and Urban Planning, 233: 104714.
Microsoft. (2022, Aug. 15th). Minecraft. Retrieved from https://www.minecraft.net/

335

Mielikäinen, M. (2022). Towards blended learning: Stakeholders’ perspectives on a project-based integrated curriculum
in ICT engineering education. Industry and Higher Education, 36(1): 74-85.
Olatunji, O. A. (2019). Promoting student commitment to BIM in construction education. Engineering, Construction and
Architectural Management, 26(7): 1240-1260.
Olowa, T., Witt, E., Morganti, C. & Teittinen, T. &. (2022). Defining a BIM-Enabled Learning Environment—An
Adaptive Structuration Theory Perspective. Buildings, 12(3): 292.

340

Raes, A., Vanneste, P., Pieters, M., Windey, I., Van Den Noortgate, W. & Depaepe, F. (2020). Learning and instruction
in the hybrid virtual classroom: An investigation of students’ engagement and the effect of quizzes. Computers &
Education, 143: 103682.
Singh, V. (2014). BIM and systemic ICT innovation in AEC: perceived needs and actor’s degrees of freedom.
Construction Innovation, 14(3): 292-306.

345

Sweet, C., Sayre, M. M. & Bohrer, K. (2023). Virtual and In-Person Community-Engaged Learning: Is Student Learning
Virtually the Same? Journal of Experiential Education, 46(1): 80-98.
Torres Martín, C., Acal, C., El Homrani, M. & Mingorance Estrada, Á. C. (2021). Impact on the virtual learning
environment due to COVID-19. Sustainability, 13(2): 582.

350

Wang, R., Lowe, R., Newton, S. & Kocaturk, T. (2020). Task complexity and learning styles in situated virtual learning
environments for construction higher education. Automation in Construction, 113: 103148.
Wu, Y., Shang, J. & Xue, F. (2021). Regard: Symmetry-based coarse registration of smartphone’s colorful point clouds
with cad drawings for low-cost digital twin buildings. Remote Sensing, 13(10): 1882.
Xue, F. & Lu, W. (2020). A semantic differential transaction approach to minimizing information redundancy for BIM
and blockchain integration. Automation in Construction, 118: 103270.

355

Xue, F., Lu, W. & Chen, Z. W. (2020). From LiDAR point cloud towards digital twin city: Clustering city objects based
on Gestalt principles. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 167: 418-431.
Xue, F., Lu, W., Chen, K. & Zetkulic, A. (2019). From semantic segmentation to semantic registration: Derivative-Free
Optimization–based approach for automatic generation of semantically rich as-built Building Information Models from
3D point clouds. Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, 33(4): 04019024.

360

