A Scan-to-BIM Automation Paradigm for Digital Transformation in
the AEC Industry
Ke You*, Fan Xue, Zhe Chen, Sou-Han Chen,
This is the authors’ version of the paper:
You, K., Xue, F., Chen, Z. & Chen, S.-H. (2025). A Scan-to-BIM Automation
Paradigm for Digital Transformation in the AEC Industry. Proceedings of the
29th International Symposium on Advancement of Construction Management
and Real Estate, Springer, in press.
This file is shared for personal and academic use only, under the license CC
BY-NC-ND 4.0 (Non-Commercial, No Derivatives, and with an Attributed citation
when you use). The final published version of this paper can be found at:
[LINK_TO_SPRINGERLINK]. Any uses other than personal and academic purposes must
obtain appropriate permissions from Springer first.

Department of Real Estate and Construction, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong Kong;
e-mail: youke@hku.hk; xuef@hku.hk; cz77@connect.hku.hk; hankchen@connect.hku.hk

Abstract
Building information modeling (BIM) plays the central role in the digital transformation of the
architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) industry. As-built BIM plays a vital role in
quality control, construction progress tracking, and infrastructure maintenance. Scan-to-BIM is an
effective way to obtain accurate as-built BIM. Although Scan-to-BIM is a current research hotspot,
it still faces challenges such as low efficiency and limited applicability. To address these gaps, this
study proposes a Scan-to-BIM automation system (SBASE). SBASE integrates a large-scale
data-driven deep learning method to obtain semantic information of 3D point clouds and perform
instance segmentation. BIM can be automatically generated through model matching and
parametric modeling. SBASE effectively combines rule-based and learning-based methods to
improve the accuracy and generalizability of the model. Tests were conducted on real building
facilities in Hong Kong to verify the reliability of SBASE. The results show that our proposed
method can be effectively applied to unstructured building scenarios and contribute to the
development of digitalization in the AEC industry.

Keywords: Building Information Modeling (BIM); Scan-to-BIM; semantic segmentation; Point
clouds.

1 Introduction
The digital transformation of the architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) industry
is a key development direction for smart construction. Building Information Modeling (BIM) is an
important part of this change and plays a key role in quality control, construction progress
tracking, and infrastructure maintenance [1,2]. However, in actual construction, changes in the
assembly process or construction deviations may lead to substantial differences between the
design BIM and the as-built BIM in the project. The existence of such differences brings
additional costs and potential safety risks to maintenance during the building operation phase.
Therefore, accurate and comprehensive as-built BIM is needed to effectively support the
development of the AEC industry.
Traditional methods of collecting as-built BIM require a lot of manual involvement, which is
a tedious and time-consuming task. Considering the rising labor costs, and driven by technological
advancement and the growing demand for efficiency, this paradigm shift has led to the rapid
development of scan-to-BIM technology. The process of scan-to-BIM involves measuring and
reconstructing the existing state of a building to obtain its functional and physical characteristics
[3]. The process relies on the use of light detection and ranging (LiDAR) to obtain
millimeter-level three-dimensional (3D) point cloud data (PCD), combined with other advanced
technologies such as deep learning to capture the geometric and semantic information of the
building environment. Scan-to-BIM can also achieve efficient management of the entire life cycle
of a building project through real-time updating and integration of field data. Although
scan-to-BIM has been widely used in the AEC industry, it still faces the challenge of low
automation and still requires a lot of manual intervention in the modeling process, making it
difficult to exert its advantages in some specific scenarios [2,3].
This research proposes a scan-to-BIM automation system (SBASE) to address the challenges
faced by existing research. SBASE uses data-driven deep learning technology to perform semantic
segmentation and instance segmentation on 3D point clouds [4], thereby accurately and efficiently
representing the site environment. SBASE integrates model matching and parametric modeling to
achieve automatic construction of BIM models. By combining rule-based and learning-based
methods, SBASE not only improves the accuracy of the generated model, but also enhances its
generalization performance in various building scenarios.
The structure of this research is as follows: Section 2 presents a literature review on
scan2BIM and related advanced algorithms. Section 3 introduces the process and technical details
of the proposed SBASE method. Section 4 analyzes the results of a case study and provides a
discussion. Finally, Section 5 concludes the paper and offers future perspectives.

2 Literature review
2.1 Rule-Based Method
The semantic information of 3D point clouds is necessary for the automated scan-to-BIM
process. General architectural elements (AEs) are typically composed of parts with regular shapes,
such as walls, floors, columns, and beams. Therefore, we can identify and extract target objects

based on the geometric and spatial information of the 3D point clouds through algorithms. Based
on the generalized random sample consensus (RANSAC), Schnabel et al. [5] implemented the
detection of various 3D shapes, including spheres, cylinders, and cones. Methods based on
centerlines [6] can employ 2D Hough transformations on sliced point clouds to identify pipes with
predetermined dimensions. Sectional analysis can effectively detect mechanical, electrical, and
plumbing (MEP) components [2]. Slicing methods and Gaussian spheres can be used to determine
the primary direction of cylinders [7,8]. Despite the progress made in the aforementioned studies,
the algorithms have limitations in identifying capabilities for some complex building structures,
such as bends and T-shaped cross-sections.

2.2 Deep learning-based semantic segmentation
Traditional Scan-to-BIM approach necessitates significant manual labor in data processing,
resulting in evident drawbacks such as low efficiency and high cost. The development of GPUs
has facilitated the increasingly widespread application of deep learning-based semantic
segmentation in practice. Charles et al. proposed PointNet [9], which can apply deep learning
methods to process point cloud data. The global features extracted by PointNet can accomplish
classification tasks effectively, but its local feature extraction capability is relatively weak, making
it difficult to analyze complex scenes. PointNet++ [10] introduced a multi-level feature extraction
structure, which can effectively address the issue of uneven point cloud density. F-PointNet [11]
expanded the application of PointNet to 3D object detection, combining image information to
obtain a prior search range, thus enhancing efficiency and accuracy.
By leveraging contrastive learning and scene context information, the annotation work can be
reduced and efficient learning of 3D point cloud data can be achieved [12,13]. One challenge
faced by deep learning-based 3D point cloud semantic segmentation is the limited generalization
capability of pre-trained models. When using a pre-trained model in an unknown scene, it is
difficult for the model to meet performance requirements without retraining or fine-tuning [14].
The complexity of scenes poses challenges for the automation of the scan-to-BIM process.

3 Methodology
The SBASE method proposed in this study effectively overcomes the limitations of
conventional techniques, enhancing the automation level of Scan-to-BIM processes. Building
upon semantic segmentation of 3D point cloud models, SBASE automatically generates BIM
models of AEs, such as walls, floors, columns, and beams. For detailed BIM objects such as doors,
windows, lighting, and Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC), and furniture, instance
segmentation serves as a foundation for matching these elements with BIM targets in a model
library, ultimately generating interior BIM models. We have developed functional modules within
Revit and the BlenderBIM plugin to facilitate improved user interaction experiences.

3.1 Overall pipeline of SBASE
The overall pipeline of the SBASE is illustrated in Figure 1. The process begins with the
preprocessing of the acquired PCD. After applying noise reduction techniques and other

operations to enhance data quality, the resulting dataset is used as the input for the system. We
conduct semantic segmentation on the input data in step 1.1, which can realize auto-detection of
groups based on point semantics and generating statistical information of individual objects.

Figure 1. The overall pipeline of SBASE.

Step 1.2 focuses on identifying general AEs, including walls, floors, columns, and beams.
This step involves filtering target objects and using object snapping to efficiently reconstruct
building elements. The accuracy and reliability of general AEs are ensured by incorporating user
input. Step 1.3 focuses primarily on the automation of detailed BIM object creation. The main
goal of this phase is to automatically place “m” scanned objects in “n” BIM families, thereby
simplifying the model generation process. In terms of software features and tools, the SBASE
plugin provides strong support for commercial and open source BIM/CIM platforms, making it a
universal solution for a variety of building and construction projects.

3.2 Algorithms and Data Flow
The proposed SBASE method combines spatial voxel-based room partitioning and Mask 3D
for semantic segmentation, as shown in Fig. 2. To ensure the relevance and effectiveness of the
algorithm in the local context, we prepared a training dataset specifically based on the needs of the
Hong Kong building landscape. This includes the utilization of resources such as the Construction
Industry Council (CIC) Public BIM Library, which includes a comprehensive collection of BIM
families and types relevant to the region. By leveraging this tailored approach, our segmentation
method can improve the accuracy and applicability of BIM models, ultimately contributing to
improving the efficiency and reliability of the building planning and construction process.

Figure 2. Algorithms and data flow.

To identify general AEs, we implement plane/cylinder detection based on RANSAC. By
iteratively selecting random subsets of data points and fitting a geometric model, RANSAC is able
to identify and distinguish various building elements in the point cloud, ultimately helping to
generate accurate and reliable BIM models. We employ rule-based checks to ensure consistency
with established architectural principles. Our approach follows the codes of building practice set
by various departments. This compliance ensures that the generated BIM model meets the
necessary legal and safety requirements and meets the highest industry standards.
We implemented affine transformation optimization for automatic fitting of BIM objects and
frequent BIM object indexing. Cross-section and visual structural measurement (VSM) point
object matching are used to associate 3D structures with predefined objects in the BIM model
library, improving the accuracy of the model. Affine transformation optimization enables
automatic fitting of BIM objects by rotating, scaling, and translating objects, reducing manual
intervention and error rates. Frequent BIM object indexing improves query efficiency by sorting
and indexing objects in the BIM model library.

4 Experimentation and Result
We developed a web interface for SBASE, which integrates functions such as user
registration and project progress preview. This user-friendly interface enables seamless interaction
between users and the system, facilitating efficient management of BIM projects, as shown in Fig.
3. In order to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed SBASE method, we conducted practical
tests and analysis based on real-world scenarios. PCD was collected within an office building in
Hong Kong using a laser scanner, ensuring comprehensive coverage by setting up multiple
stations at different locations. Subsequently, we registered the PCD and applied the proximity
principle to fuse the acquired point clouds from various settings, ultimately generating a complete
model of the office space.

Figure 3. The web interface for SBASE.

4.1 Case study
Figure 4 showcases the typical example results obtained using the SBASE method. For
generic architectural elements, we employed RANSAC and rule-based checking to accurately
derive BIM models of walls, floors, columns, and beams. By performing instance segmentation on
the basis of 3D point clouds, we were able to swiftly and accurately obtain point clouds of object
elements such as tables, chairs, and sofas. By matching the frequent BIM objects from the CIC
and local objects with the point cloud models, we were able to obtain BIM models for different
object instances. The results indicate that the Auto place by SBASE method achieved a precision
of 0.8, recall of 0.857, and an F1 score of 0.828.

Figure 4. Results obtained by SBASE.

4.2 Discussion
We conducted a comparative analysis of different mainstream commercial software solutions
and our proposed SBASE, as shown in Figure 5. In this context, PCD pre-processing refers to the
file transfer process. The processing time for general AEs encompasses several stages, including
room allocations and matching, measurement and deciding family type, placement of BIM
families for walls and floors, and placement of BIM families for columns and beams. For detailed
BIM objects, the processing time includes measurement and deciding family type, finding similar
BIM families, creating new BIM families, and placing BIM families.

Figure 5. Comparative analysis of processing time.

The results demonstrate that the processing time required by the SBASE method is
significantly shorter compared to its competitors, with time savings of 59.9% and 42.1%,
respectively. The comparative analysis between SBASE and other commercial software solutions
reveals the advantages of the proposed method in streamlining the BIM process and reducing
processing time. This highlights the superiority of the proposed method in terms of efficiency and
effectiveness.

5 Conclusion
The proposed SBASE method in this study is capable of integrating the advantages of both
rule-based and learning-based methods, enhancing the level of automation in the scan-to-BIM
process. The integration of a large-scale data-driven deep learning approach for semantic
segmentation and instance segmentation of 3D point clouds within SBASE has shown to enhance
both model accuracy and robustness. Tests on real-world building facilities in Hong Kong have
demonstrated that SBASE, when compared to existing commercial software, achieves a notable
improvement in time efficiency within architectural scenarios. Therefore, the proposed method
holds substantial potential to contribute to the ongoing digitalization of the AEC industry. It is
anticipated that future research and developments in scan-to-BIM will continue to leverage the
advancements in deep learning techniques, further improving the accuracy, efficiency, and
application of scan-to-BIM in the AEC industry.

Acknowledgement
This study was supported by Innovation and Technology Commission (ITC) (No.
ITP/004/23LP).

References
[1]

Li, X., Lu, W.S., Xue, F., Wu, L.P.F., Zhao, R., Lou, J.F., Xu, J.Y.

(2022).

Blockchain-Enabled IoT-BIM Platform for Supply Chain Management in Modular
Construction, Journal of Construction Engineering and Management 148 (2), 18.
[2]

Bosché, F., Ahmed, M., Turkan, Y., Haas, C.T., Haas, R.

(2015). The value of integrating

Scan-to-BIM and Scan-vs-BIM techniques for construction monitoring using laser scanning
and BIM: The case of cylindrical MEP components, Automation in Construction 49 201-213.
[3]

Murali, S., Speciale, P., Oswald, M.R., Pollefeys, M., Indoor Scan2BIM: Building Information
Models of House Interiors,

IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and

Systems (IROS), Ieee, Vancouver, CANADA, 2017, pp. 6126-6133.
[4]

Chen, S.H., Xue, F.

(2023). Automatic BIM detailing using deep features of 3D views,

Automation in Construction 148 11.
[5]

Schnabel, R., Wahl, R., Klein, R.

(2007). Efficient RANSAC for point-cloud shape detection,

Computer Graphics Forum 26 (2), 214-226.
[6]

Ahmed, M.F., Haas, C.T., Haas, R.

(2014). Automatic Detection of Cylindrical Objects in

Built Facilities, Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering 28 (3), 11.
[7]

Qiu, R.Q., Zhou, Q.Y., Neumann, U., Pipe-Run Extraction and Reconstruction from Point
Clouds,

13th European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), Vol. 8691, Springer

International Publishing Ag, Zurich, SWITZERLAND, 2014, pp. 17-30.
[8]

Tran, T.T., Cao, V.T., Laurendeau, D.

(2015). Extraction of cylinders and estimation of their

parameters from point clouds, Computers & Graphics-Uk 46 345-357.
[9]

Qi, C.R., Su, H., Mo, K., Guibas, L.J., Pointnet: Deep learning on point sets for 3d
classification and segmentation,

Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision

and pattern recognition, 2017, pp. 652-660.
[10]

Qi, C.R., Yi, L., Su, H., Guibas, L.J., PointNet plus plus : Deep Hierarchical Feature Learning
on Point Sets in a Metric Space,

31st Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing

Systems (NIPS), Vol. 30, Neural Information Processing Systems (Nips), Long Beach, CA,
2017.
[11]

Qi, C.R., Liu, W., Wu, C.X., Su, H., Guibas, L.J., Ieee, Frustum PointNets for 3D Object
Detection from RGB-D Data,

31st IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern

Recognition (CVPR), Ieee, Salt Lake City, UT, 2018, pp. 918-927.
[12]

Hou, J., Graham, B., Niesner, M., Xie, S.N., Ieee Comp, S.O.C., Exploring Data-Efficient 3D
Scene Understanding with Contrastive Scene Contexts,

IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer

Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Ieee Computer Soc, Electr Network, 2021, pp.
15582-15592.
[13]

Hu, Q.Y., Yang, B., Fang, G.C., Guo, Y.L., Leonardis, A., Trigoni, N., Markham, A., SQN:
Weakly-Supervised Semantic Segmentation of Large-Scale 3D Point Clouds,

17th European

Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), Vol. 13687, Springer International Publishing Ag,

Tel Aviv, ISRAEL, 2022, pp. 600-619.
[14]

Wang, B.Y., Chen, Z.Y., Li, M.K., Wang, Q., Yin, C., Cheng, J.C.P.

(2024).

Omni-Scan2BIM: A ready-to-use Scan2BIM approach based on vision foundation models for
MEP scenes, Automation in Construction 162 18.

